<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Craig.Drummond; &Craig.Drummond.Mail;</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-10-22</date>
<releaseinfo>3.2</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>fonts</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>
<sect1 id="fontinst">
<title>Font Installer</title>

<para>This module is responsible for installing (and uninstalling)
fonts. The installer will configure X (X.org, XFree86), XRender,
(anti-aliasing), fontconfig, and <application>Ghostscript</application> (printing),
for any TrueType
(<literal role="extension">.ttf</literal>) and Type1 (<literal
role="extension">.pfa</literal>, <literal
role="extension">.pfb</literal>) fonts that you care to install -
bitmap (<literal role="extension">.bdf</literal>, <literal
role="extension">.pcf</literal>) fonts will also be installed, but
these can only used by X.</para>

<para>When the module is started by a normal (non-root) user, then the
settings will refer to their personal configuration, and installed
fonts will be available to them only. For <systemitem
class="username">root</systemitem>, the settings will usually refer to
the system-wide configuration, and as such any installed fonts should
be available to all users.</para>
<para>If you install fonts as a normal user and notice the fonts used for 
display (and for print preview) do not match those of the printed output
- then you should re-install the fonts system-wide (i.e. as <systemitem
class="username">root</systemitem>). This can occur because when printing
the output is sent to a printer queue - and when the system comes to actually
send the information to the printer, it is running as a different user (usually
<systemitem class="username">lp</systemitem>), and cannot find the font files.</para>
<para>To install fonts, simply select the "Add Fonts" button - this will
produce a file dialog, then just locate the fonts to install. Likewise, to
remove a font, simply highlight a font and press the "Delete" button.</para>
<sect2 id="using-konqueror">
<title>Using Konqueror</title>
<para>You can also use Konqueror to install fonts via drag-and-drop.
To do this just type <ulink url="fonts:/">fonts:/</ulink> into Konqueror's Location bar.</para>
<para>As a normal (non-root) user, this will produce 2 top-level folders:</para>
<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para><ulink url="fonts:/Personal">Personal</ulink> - this will display your personal fonts.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><ulink url="fonts:/System">System</ulink> - this will display the system wide fonts. If you drag-n-drop a font
on to the folders here, you will be asked for the root password in order
to install the font.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>
<para>If you drop a font over <ulink url="fonts:/">fonts:/</ulink>, then you will be asked whether this
should go into "Personal", or "System".</para>
<para>As root, just the contents of the system font folder will be displayed
- as root does not have any "personal" fonts.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</article>
