.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXTRACTKMDR 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
extractkmdr \- extract message strings from Kommander dialogs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extractkmdr
[ \fB\-\-tag=\fP\fIname\fP ... ]
[ \fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP ]
\fIfile\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBextractkmdr\fP finds all text tags and other message strings within the
given Kommander dialog (.kmdr) files.  It then writes the corresponding
\fIi18n()\fP calls to standard output (usually redirected to rc.cpp)
so that xgettext can parse them.
.PP
To create a complete gettext message file (PO-file) from a Kommander
dialog, the
.BR kmdr2po (1)
utility is more convenient.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-tag=\fP\fIname\fP
Extract also the contents of the tag \fIname\fP.
This option may be used multiple times
(e.g., \-\-tag=tag_one \-\-tag=tag_two).
.TP
\fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP
Give all i18n() calls the given context: i18n("\fIname\fP", ...).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kmdr-editor (1),
.BR kmdr-executor (1),
.BR kmdr-plugins (1),
.BR kmdr2po (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
