.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KIMAGEMAPEDITOR 1 "October 19, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kimagemapeditor \- an HTML image map editor for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kimagemapeditor
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
[ \fB\-c, \-\-stdout\fP ]
[ \fIfile\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKImageMapEditor\fP is a tool that allows you to edit image maps in
HTML files.  As well as providing a standalone application,
KImageMapEditor makes itself available as a KPart for embedding into
larger applications.
.PP
The files passed on the command line may be either HTML files or image
files.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kimagemapeditor-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkimagemapeditor \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-stdout\fP
Write the resulting HTML code to standard output when exiting.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quanta (1).
.SH AUTHOR
KImageMapEditor was written by Jan Schafer <janschaefer@users.sourceforge.net>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
