.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KLINKSTATUS 1 "October 19, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
klinkstatus \- a web link validity checker for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B klinkstatus
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
[ \fIURL\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKLinkStatus\fP is a web link validity checker for KDE.  It allows you to
search internal and external links throughout your web site.  Simply
point it to a single page and choose the depth to search.
.PP
You can also check local files, or files over ftp:, fish: or any other
KIO protocols.  For performance, links can be checked simultaneously.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIklinkstatus \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quanta (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/klinkstatus/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/klinkstatus/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdewebdev-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/klinkstatus/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KLinkStatus was written by Paulo Moura Guedes <moura@kdewebdev.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
