.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMDR-EXECUTOR 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmdr-executor \- executor for the Kommander visual dialog building tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmdr-executor
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
[ \fB\-c\fP \fIcatalog\fP ]
{ \fB\-\-stdin\fP | \fIfile\fP }
[ \fIarg\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKommander\fP is a visual dialog building tool whose
primary objective is to create
as much functionality as possible without using any scripting language.
.PP
More specifically, Kommander is a set of tools that allow you to
create dynamic GUI dialogs
that generate, based on their state, a piece of text.  The piece of text
can be a command line to a program, any piece of code, business
documents that contain a lot of repititious or templated text and so on.
The resulting generated text can then be executed as a command line
program (hence the name "Kommander"), written to a file, passed to a
script for extended processing, and literally anything else you can
think of.  The best part of it all?  You aren't required to write a single
line of code!
.PP
This executor (\fBkmdr-executor\fP) is used to run a dialog that has
been created by the
dialog editor (\fBkmdr-editor\fP).  Either the dialog file (generally
a \fI.kmdr\fP file) should be passed on
the command-line, or else the option \-\-stdin should be passed and the
dialog description should be supplied as XML on standard input.
Additional arguments for the dialog itself may also be supplied.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kommander-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkmdr-editor \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIcatalog\fP
Use the given catalog for translation.
.TP
\fB\-\-stdin\fP
Read the XML dialog description from standard input instead of passing
a \fI.kmdr\fP file on the command-line.
.TP
\fIarg\fP ...
Additional arguments to be passed on to the dialog itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR extractkmdr (1),
.BR kmdr-editor (1),
.BR kmdr-plugins (1),
.BR kmdr2po (1),
.BR quanta (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kommander/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kommander/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdewebdev-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kommander/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Kommander was written by Marc Britton <consume@optusnet.com.au>,
Eric Laffoon <sequitur@kde.org>, Michal Rudolf <mrudolf@kdewebdev.org>,
Andras Mantia <amantia@kde.org> and Trolltech.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
