.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMDR-PLUGINS 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmdr-plugins \- plugin manager for the Kommander visual dialog building tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmdr-plugins
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKommander\fP is a visual dialog building tool whose
primary objective is to create
as much functionality as possible without using any scripting language.
.PP
It is possible to extend Kommander by writing your own plugins.  The
plugin manager
.B kmdr-plugins
is a simple user interface to Kommander's configuration file, and
can be used to select which external plugins Kommander should load.
Closing the plugin manager will automatically save any changes.
.PP
By loading a plugin, the custom widgets that it defines
will become available in Kommander's menus and toolbars, and these
custom widgets can be used in Kommander dialogs.
.PP
See
.BR kmdr-editor (1)
and
.BR kmdr-executor (1)
for a more detailed description of Kommander.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkmdr-plugins \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR extractkmdr (1),
.BR kmdr-editor (1),
.BR kmdr-executor (1),
.BR kmdr2po (1),
.BR quanta (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kommander/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kommander/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdewebdev-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kommander/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Kommander was written by Marc Britton <consume@optusnet.com.au>,
Eric Laffoon <sequitur@kde.org>, Michal Rudolf <mrudolf@kdewebdev.org>,
Andras Mantia <amantia@kde.org> and Trolltech.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
