.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMDR2PO 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmdr2po \- create a PO-file from a Kommander dialog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmdr2po
.I dialog
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkmdr2po\fP creates a gettext message file (PO-file) from the given
Kommander dialog (.kmdr) file.  It does this by using
.BR extractkmdr (1)
to extract all text tags and other message strings, and then running
.BR xgettext (1)
to create the corresponding PO-file.
.PP
The final PO-file will be created in the current directory.  Its name
will be derived from the dialog filename by replacing the suffix
\fI.kmdr\fP with \fI.po\fP.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE web development module.
.SH WARNING
A temporary file named \fI_from_rc.cc\fP in the current directory
will be created and subsequently removed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR extractkmdr (1),
.BR kmdr-editor (1),
.BR kmdr-executor (1),
.BR kmdr-plugins (1),
.BR xgettext (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
