.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KXSLDBG 1 "October 19, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kxsldbg \- a graphical XSLT debugger for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kxsldbg
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKXSLDbg\fP is a graphical debugger for XSLT scripts.  It provides
a graphical front-end to the text-based debugger
.BR xsldbg (1).
KXSLDbg can be run as a standalone application or as an embedded KDE part.
.PP
XSLT is an XML language for defining transformations of XML files from
XML to some other arbitrary format, such as XML, HTML, plain text, etc.,
using standard XSLT stylesheets.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkxsldbg \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR quanta (1),
.BR xsldbg (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kxsldbg/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kxsldbg/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdewebdev-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kxsldbg/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KXSLDbg was written by Keith Isdale <k_isdale@tpg.com.au>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
