.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH QUANTA 1 "October 19, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
quanta \- a web development environment for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quanta
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ] [ \fB\-\-unique\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-nologo\fP ] [ \fIfile\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBQuanta Plus\fP is a web development environment for working with HTML
and associated languages.  It strives to be neutral and transparent
to all markup languages, while supporting popular web-based scripting
languages, CSS and other emerging W3C recommendations.
.PP
Quanta Plus supports many external components, debuggers and other tools
for web development, several of which are shipped with the KDE web development
module.
.PP
Quanta Plus is not in any way affiliated with any commercial versions
of Quanta.  The primary coders from the original team left the GPLed
version to produce a commercial product.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE web development module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the quanta-specific options.  For a full summary of options,
run \fIquanta \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-unique\fP
Run as a one-instance application.
.TP
\fB\-\-nologo\fP
Do not show the logo during startup.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kimagemapeditor (1),
.BR klinkstatus (1),
.BR kmdr-editor (1),
.BR kmdr-executor (1),
.BR kxsldbg (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/quanta/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/quanta/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdewebdev-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/quanta/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Quanta was written by Eric Laffoon <sequitur@kde.org>, Andras Mantia
<amantia@kde.org> and others including inactive authors
Dmitry Poplavsky <dima@kde.org> and Alexander Yakovlev <yshurik@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
