<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE glossary PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->
<!-- Uncomment the previous two lines to validate this document -->
<!-- standalone.  Be sure to recomment them before attempting to -->
<!-- process index.docbook -->

<glossary id="glossary">
<glossaryinfo>
<!-- Fill in this section if this document has a different author -->
<authorgroup>
<author>
<personname><firstname></firstname><surname></surname></personname>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</glossaryinfo>

<title>Glossary</title>

<glossdiv><title>A</title>
  <glossentry id="gloss-auxiliary">
    <glossterm>Auxiliary file</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
	<para>
      is a &kbabel; specific issue. It is an option for the user to
      set up one <acronym>PO</acronym> file to search through for original messages. For example,
      if you're a member of French team  and have some Spanish or Italian
      knowledge you can grab and set-up an auxiliary Spanish <acronym>PO</acronym> file
      associated with the file currently being translated.

      </para>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>C</title>
  <glossentry id="gloss-compendium">
    <glossterm>Compendium file</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      is a collection of all translations
      for one language. This big <acronym>PO</acronym> file
      is made by unique messages from all
      applications' <acronym>PO</acronym> files. It can
      be used to fill in all already translated
      strings into a new yet untranslated
      or partially translated <acronym>PO</acronym> file.
      &kbabel; uses such a file in the <quote>PO Compendium</quote>
      search engine.
      </para>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>F</title>
  <glossentry id="fuzzy">
    <glossterm>Fuzzy</glossterm>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      This is a flag generated, in general,
      by <command>msgmerge</command>. It shows
      that a <acronym>msgstr</acronym> string
      might not be a correct translation.
      The translator must see and make modifications
      to the string if necessary and then remove
      the <quote>fuzzy</quote> flag
      from the message's comment.
      </para>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>I</title>
  <glossentry id="i18n">
    <glossterm>Internationalization</glossterm>
    <acronym>i18n</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      is the operation by which an application
      is made aware and able to support multiple
      languages. The word <quote>internationalization</quote>
      has 20 characters so, to shorten it,
      people started to write only
      the first and last characters and between them
      write the number of intermediate characters (18)
      forming the common abbreviation <acronym>i18n</acronym>.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="l10n"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>L</title>
  <glossentry id="l10n">
    <glossterm>Localization</glossterm>
    <acronym>l10n</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      is the operation by which an application
      already internationalized is made
      to process input and output in a fashion
      desired by some cultural and language habits.
      The word <quote>localization</quote>
      has 12 characters so, to shorten it,
      people started to write only
      the first and last characters and between them
      write the number of intermediate characters (10)
      forming the common abbreviation <acronym>l10n</acronym>.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="i18n"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>M</title>
  <glossentry id="mofile">
    <glossterm>MO file</glossterm>
    <acronym>MO</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      <acronym>MO</acronym> stands for <quote>Machine Object</quote>. A <acronym>MO</acronym> file
      contains binary data suitable
      for reading by computers.
      The contents of a <acronym>MO</acronym> file are organized as a database
      to minimize the lookup time
      for translated strings.  <acronym>MO</acronym> files
      are obtained by compiling <acronym>PO</acronym> files
      using <command>msgfmt</command>.

      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="pofile"></glossseealso>
      <glossseealso otherterm="potfile"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
  <glossentry id="msgid">
    <glossterm>Message ID</glossterm>
    <acronym>msgid</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      <acronym>msgid</acronym> is the keyword
      which introduces the original string in a <acronym>PO</acronym> file.
      It is followed by a C-like string that spans
      one or more lines.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="msgstr"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
  <glossentry id="msgstr">
    <glossterm>Message String</glossterm>
    <acronym>msgstr</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      <acronym>msgstr</acronym> is the keyword
      which introduce the translated string in <acronym>PO</acronym> file.
      It is followed by C-like string that span
      on one or multiple lines.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="msgid"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

<glossdiv><title>P</title>
  <glossentry id="pofile">
    <glossterm>PO file</glossterm>
    <acronym>PO</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      <acronym>PO</acronym> stands for <quote>Portable Object</quote>. <acronym>PO</acronym> files
      contain sets of strings which
      associate each translatable string
      with its translation in a particular
      language.  A single <acronym>PO</acronym> file relates
      to only one language.  A <acronym>PO</acronym> file is
      derived from a <acronym>POT</acronym> file and is
      edited either by hand or using &kbabel;.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="potfile"></glossseealso>
      <glossseealso otherterm="mofile"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
  <glossentry id="potfile">
    <glossterm>POT file</glossterm>
    <acronym>POT</acronym>
    <glossdef>
      <para>
      <acronym>POT</acronym> stands for <quote>Portable Object Template</quote>.       A <quote>POT</quote> file is built by extracting all the
      translatable strings from application
      source files.  A <quote>POT</quote> file does not
      contain translations into any particular language&mdash;
      it is used by the translators as a template.
      </para>
      <glossseealso otherterm="pofile"></glossseealso>
      <glossseealso otherterm="mofile"></glossseealso>
    </glossdef>
  </glossentry>
</glossdiv>

</glossary>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab 
-->
