<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY using SYSTEM "using.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kbabeldictchapter SYSTEM "kbabeldict.docbook">
 <!ENTITY catman SYSTEM "catman.docbook">
 <!ENTITY dictionaries SYSTEM "dictionaries.docbook">
 <!ENTITY menu SYSTEM "menu.docbook">
 <!ENTITY preferences SYSTEM "preferences.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kbabelfaq SYSTEM "faq.docbook">
 <!ENTITY glossary SYSTEM "glossary.docbook">
 <!ENTITY kappname "&kbabel;">
 <!ENTITY package "kdesdk">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kbabel; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
&Stanislav.Visnovsky; &Stanislav.Visnovsky.mail;
</author>
<author>
&Matthias.Kiefer;
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Nicolas</firstname>
<surname>Goutte</surname>
<email>goutte@kde.org</email>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>


<date>2005-12-29</date>
<releaseinfo>3.5.1.03</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kbabel; is a suite of of an advanced and easy to use
<acronym>PO</acronym> file editor comprising &kbabel;, a multi
functional &catalogmanager; and a dictionary for translators
&kbabeldict;. It supports many advanced features and it lets you
customize many options. 
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KBabel</keyword>
<keyword>catalogmanager</keyword>
<keyword>kdesdk</keyword>
<keyword>gettext</keyword>
<keyword>translation</keyword>
<keyword>i18n</keyword>
<keyword>internationalization</keyword>
<keyword>l10n</keyword>
<keyword>localization</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<important><para>
In its current state, this KBabel documentation is partially outdated.
The basic documentation was meant for KDE 3.2,
the corrections are meant for KBabel 1.11.1 of KDE 3.5.1.
</para></important>

<para>
&kbabel; is an advanced and easy to use <acronym>PO</acronym> file
(&GNU; gettext message catalogs) editor. It has many features, that
make it easy to edit and manage your <acronym>PO</acronym> files.
This includes full navigation capabilities, extensive editing
functionality, search functions, syntax checking and statistics
function.  &catalogmanager; is a file manager view, which helps you
keep an overview over your <acronym>PO</acronym> files.  &kbabeldict;
allows you to translate any text using &kbabel; capabilities for
automated translation.  The &kbabel; suite will help you to translate
quickly and also to keep translations consistent.
</para>

<para>
With the &kde; project growing continuously, the number of
<acronym>PO</acronym> messages is over 47000 at the time of writing
this documentation (plus another 20000 messages used for translating
application documentation). There is a need to stay organized and
consistent across all translations.
</para>

</chapter>

&using;
&catman;
&kbabeldictchapter;
&dictionaries;
&preferences;
&menu;
&kbabelfaq;


<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kbabel;
</para>
<para>
Program Copyright &copy; 1999-2000 &Matthias.Kiefer; &Matthias.Kiefer.mail;
</para>
<para>
Contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>&Thomas.Diehl; &Thomas.Diehl.mail;</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>&Stephan.Kulow; &Stephan.Kulow.mail;</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>Documentation Copyright &copy; 2000 &Claudiu.Costin;
&Claudiu.Costin.mail; and &Matthias.Kiefer;
&Matthias.Kiefer.mail;</para>

<para>Update for &kde; 3.0 Copyright &copy; 2002 &Stanislav.Visnovsky;
&Stanislav.Visnovsky.mail;</para>

<para>Update for &kde; 3.5.1 Copyright &copy; 2005 Nicolas Goutte
<email>goutte@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

&glossary;

<appendix id="mailing-list">
<title>Mailing List For KBabel</title>

<para>
There is a mailing list for KBabel named kbabel.
It is a mixed list for developers and for users of KBabel.
</para>

<para>
You can subscribe it at 
<ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/mailman/listinfo/kbabel/">the Mailman interface</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
The mailing list has
<ulink url="http://mail.kde.org/pipermail/kbabel/">a public archive</ulink>.
</para>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->
