<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kweather  "<application>kweather</application>">
  <!ENTITY package "kdetoys">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The KWeather Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname></firstname>
<othername></othername>
<surname></surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email></email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&GPLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2004-05-31</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
KWeather is part of the kdetoys package.
</para>
</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KWeather</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>KWeather is an application that provides both a panel icon,
allowing you to watch the weather as reported by a local weather
station,  and providing a weather service that can track multiple
weather  stations and provide this information to other
applications including &konqueror;'s sidebar and &kontact;'s
summary page.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="adding-applet">
<title>Using KWeather as a Panel Applet</title>

<para>&RMB; click on an empty space in the panel and choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Add</guimenu><guisubmenu>Applet</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>KWeather</guimenuitem></menuchoice></para>

<para>A configuration dialog will open up.  Initially the only
configuration required to make KWeather work is the <guilabel>ICAO
location code:</guilabel>.</para>

<para>This is a four character code used by the weather reporting
service to uniquely identify weather stations around the world.</para>

<para>As it's unlikely that most people will happen to know this
directly, there is a link to a search engine where you can look it
up.</para>

<note><para>While the weather stations available are fairly
comprehensive, not every town in every country will be represented,
simply because not every town has an appropriate weather station.  If
your own town is not represented, you should choose the one nearest
you.  Since flying planes safely requires accurate weather data, most
towns with an airport will be in the list, so a good bet
is to look for the nearest airport to you.</para></note>

<para>At this point, you can press the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> button
and the dialog will close.  You will now have an icon displaying the
current weather graphically on your panel.  Clicking it once will open
a window that shows the weather in detail.</para>

<para>Further configuration is described in the next chapter.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="configuring-kweather">
<title>Configuring KWeather</title>

<sect1 id="display">
<title>Display</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Weather Station Options</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
  <variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
  <term><guilabel>ICAO location code:</guilabel></term>
  <listitem><para>ICAO stands for the International Civil Aviation
Organization.  The ICAO location code is a four character
alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies airports worldwide.  The first
two letters of the ICAO code ususally identify the coutry.  However, codes for 
airports in the United States usually start with "K", followed by a three 
character IATA (International Air Transport Assocation) code.  For example,
KORD is the ICAO code for Ohare International Airport in Chicago, Illinois.  
If you don't know the ICAO code for the airport nearest to you, you can click
on the link labeled <guilabel>Lookup Your ICAO Code</guilabel> to use a web based
search engine to find it.</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Panel Display Options</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
  <variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
  <term><guilabel>Show icon only</guilabel></term>
  <term><guilabel>Show icon and temperature</guilabel></term>
  <term><guilabel>Show icon, temperature, wind and pressure information</guilabel></term>
  <listitem><para>You can choose here if the temperature should be
displayed beside the icon, or if the current wind speed, direction, and
air pressure are also displayed.</para>
  <para>The icon is always shown.</para>
  </listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  </variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Logging Options</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable logging</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>By default KWeather does not retain old weather
information, and each time it updates the weather the old information
is discarded.  If you wish instead to keep a record of the weather,
enable this option.  Then, each time the weather is checked, KWeather
will append a new line to the log file containing the current weather
conditions in comma separated value form.  The information written 
will be the date, wind speed and direction, temperature, pressure, cover,
visibility, and "current weather".</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Log file</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you have enabled the <guilabel>Enable
logging</guilabel> check box, this option will become available.  Enter
or  browse to the location you would like KWeather to keep it's log
file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="weather-service">
<title><guilabel>Weather Service</guilabel></title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Station Manager</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Update All Stations</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Update all the listed stations
immediately.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Exit Weather Service</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Stop fetching weather updates for all
listed stations, and stop providing weather
information to the &konqueror; sidebar and &kontact;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry> </variablelist> </sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="kweather-interfaces">
<title>KWeather Interfaces</title>

<para>While the most obvious KWeather interface is the panel icon,
there are several other places where you can access KWeather's
information.  These are particularly useful if you need to watch
multiple weather stations. While &kweather; allows you to track
multiple weather stations, the panel icon displays only one at a
time.</para>

<para>These additional services are plug-ins to their respective
applications, and not provided with KWeather itself.</para>

<!-- FIXME: write some stuff and show some screenies of the konq and
kontact plugins -->

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>KWeather copyright &copy; Ian Reinhart Geiser
<email>geiseri@users.sourceforge.net</email></para>

<variablelist>
<title>Contributors</title>
<varlistentry><term>Will Andrews
<email>wca@users.sourceforge.net</email></term>
<listitem><para>Fixes for BSD port</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Ben Burton <email>benb@acm.org</email></term>
<listitem><para>Debian fixes</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Otto Bruggeman <email>bruggie@home.nl</email></term>
<listitem><para>Fixed the i18n stuff and source style
cleanups</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Nadeem Hasan <email>nhasan@nadmm.com</email></term>
<listitem><para>Lots of bug fixes, improvements and
cleanups.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Carles Carbonell Bernado <email>mail@carlitus.net</email></term>
<listitem><para>Great new weather icons</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>John Ratke <email>jratke@comcast.net</email></term>
<listitem><para>Improvements and more code cleanups</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

&underGPL;
&underFDL;

</chapter>

&documentation.index;
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

// vim:ts=2:sw=2:tw=78:noet
-->
