.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH INDISERVER 1 "October 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
indiserver \- INDI server for telescope control under KStars
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B indiserver
[ \fB\-p\fP \fIport\fP ]
[ \fB\-r\fP \fIattempts\fP ]
[ \fB\-vv\fP ]
\fIdriver\fP [ \fIdriver\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
KStars allows you to configure
and control astronomical instruments such as telescopes and focusers via
the INDI protocol.  \fBindiserver\fP is a server that sits between the
KStars user interface and the low-level hardware drivers.
.PP
The INDI server is a network server, in that either local or remote clients
may connect to it to control astronomical instruments.  The INDI server must
be running on the machine that is physically connected to the
astronomical instruments.
.PP
Note that there is no need for you to run the INDI server directly.  Using
the KStars device manager, you can set up astronomical instruments and start
or stop the INDI server all from within KStars.
.PP
You may however choose to run the INDI server manually from the command
line.  In this case you must pass the names of one or more drivers for
individual astronomical instruments.  The current list of available
drivers is:
.PP
.RS
celestrongps (Celestron GPS)
.br
fliccd (Finger Lakes Instruments CCD)
.br
lx200_16 (LX200 16")
.br
lx200autostar (LX200 Autostar)
.br
lx200classic (LX200 Classic)
.br
lx200generic (LX200 Generic)
.br
lx200gps (LX200 GPS)
.br
temma (Temma Takahashi)
.br
v4ldriver (Video4Linux Generic)
.br
v4lphilips (Philips Webcam)
.RE
.PP
Much more detailed information can be found in the KStars Handbook, as
described below.
.PP
KStars is a graphical desktop planetarium for KDE, and forms part of
the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIport\fP
Specify the port to listen on (defaults to 7624).
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIattempts\fP
Specify the maximum number of restart attempts for each driver (defaults to 2).
.TP
\fB\-vv\fP
Write more verbose output to stderr.
.SH EXAMPLE
To start an INDI server running an LX200 GPS driver and listening to
connections on port 8000:
.PP
.RS
\fIprompt$\fP indiserver -p 8000 lx200gps
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR celestrongps (1),
.BR fliccd (1),
.BR lx200_16 (1),
.BR lx200autostar (1),
.BR lx200classic (1),
.BR lx200generic (1),
.BR lx200gps (1),
.BR kstars (1),
.BR temma (1),
.BR v4ldriver (1),
.BR v4lphilips (1).
.PP
The KStars Handbook contains detailed information on how to use INDI for
telescope control.  You can read this handbook in the KDE Help Centre.
Alternatively you can enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kstars/indi.html\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kstars/indi.html\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kstars/indi.html\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KStars was written by Jason Harris <jharris@30doradus.org>,
Heiko Evermann <heiko@evermann.de>, Thomas Kabelmann <tk78@gmx.de>,
Pablo de Vicente <pvicentea@wanadoo.es>, Jasem Mutlaq <mutlaqja@ikarustech.com>,
Carsten Niehaus <cniehaus@gmx.de>, Mark Hollomon <mhh@mindspring.com>,
Vincent Jagot <vincent.jagot@free.fr> and
Martin Piskernig <martin.piskernig@stuwo.at>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
