.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KEDUCA-SHRINKER 1 "September 1, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
keduca-shrinker \- extract a random sample from a large KEduca test file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B keduca-shrinker
[ \fB\-o, \-\-output\fP=\fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB\-n, \-\-number\fP=\fInumber\fP ]
\fB\-i, \-\-input\fP=\fIfile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkeduca-shrinker\fP is a small program that reads a large KEduca
test file (.edu) and extracts a random sample of questions to create a
new smaller test file.  For example, it could take a 100 question test
file as input and then output a test file with 20 questions selected at
random.
.PP
Note that the input file \fBmust\fP be uncompressed.  When you save the
original test in the KEduca Editor, you should explicitly clear the "Compress
the file" checkbox.  Otherwise keduca-shrinker will not be able to read it.
.PP
\fBKEduca\fP is a flash-card application for working with interactive
form-based tests.  It is shipped as part of the official KDE edutainment
module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-input\fP=\fIfile\fP
The large KEduca test file that should be read as input.
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-output\fP=\fIfile\fP
The smaller KEduca test file that should be written as output.
This defaults to the input filename with \fI-shrinked\fP appended to its
base.  For example, if the input file is \fIfoo.edu\fP then the
default output file is \fIfoo-shrinked.edu\fP.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-number\fP=\fInumber\fP
The number of random questions to select from the input file.
This defaults to 20.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keduca (1),
.BR keducabuilder (1).
.PP
This tool is not yet part of the official KDE edutainment module.
Its upstream site is
\fIhttps://gna.org/projects/keduca-shrinker/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
keduca-shrinker was written by Mathieu Roy <yeupou@coleumes.org>.
It is licensed under the GNU General Public License (see the script
itself for details).
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
