.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KEDUCABUILDER 1 "September 1, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
keducabuilder \- test/exam editor for KEduca
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B keducabuilder
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fIfile\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKEducaBuilder\fP is the test editor for \fBKEduca\fP, a flash-card
application for working with interactive form-based tests.
KEducaBuilder is used to create and edit these tests, whereas KEduca
itself can be used to view and take these tests.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkeduca \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR keduca (1),
.BR keduca-shrinker (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/keduca/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/keduca/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/keduca/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KEduca was written by Javier Campos <javi@asyris.org>,
Klas Kalass <klas@kde.org>, Henrique Pinto <henrique.pinto@kdemail.net>
and Anne-Marie Mahfouf <annma@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
