.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KHANGMAN 1 "October 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
khangman \- the classical hangman game for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B khangman
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKHangMan\fP is a game based on the well known hangman game.  It is aimed
for children aged 6 and above.  It has four levels of difficulty:
Animals (animals words), Easy, Medium and Hard.
.PP
A word is picked at random and the letters are hidden.  You must guess
the word by trying one letter after another.  Each time you guess a wrong
letter, a picture of a hangman is drawn.  You must guess the word before
getting hanged!  You have 10 tries.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkhangman \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/khangman/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/khangman/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/khangman/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KHangMan was written by Primoz Anzur <zerokode@gmx.net> and
Anne-Marie Mahfouf <annma@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
