.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KLATIN 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
klatin \- an application to help revise/teach Latin
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B klatin
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKLatin\fP is a program to help revise Latin.  There are three "sections"
in which different aspects of the language can be revised.  These are the
vocabulary, grammar and verb testing sections.  In addition there is a
set of revision notes that can be used for self-guided revision.
.PP
In the vocabulary section an XML file is loaded containing various
words and their local language translations.  KLatin asks you what each
of these words translate into.  The questions take place in a
multiple-choice environment.
.PP
In the grammar and verb sections KLatin asks for a particular part of a
noun or a verb, such as the "ablative singular", or the "1st person
indicative passive plural", and is not multiple choice.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIklatin \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/klatin/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/klatin/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/klatin/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KLatin was written by George Wright <gwright@kde.org> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
