.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMPLOT 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmplot \- a mathematical function plotter for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmplot
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fIURL\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKmPlot\fP is a mathematical function plotter for KDE.
It has a powerful built-in parser.  You can plot different functions
simultaneously and combine them to build new functions.
.PP
KmPlot supports parametric functions and functions in polar
coordinates.  Several grid modes are supported.  Plots may be printed
with high precision in the correct scale.
.PP
KmPlot also provides some numerical and visual features, like
filling and calculating the area between the plot and the first axis,
finding maximum and minimum values,
changing function parameters dynamically and
plotting derivatives and integral functions.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkmplot \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kmplot/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kmplot/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kmplot/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KmPlot was written by Klaus-Dieter Moeller <kdmoeller@foni.net>,
Matthias Messmer <bmlmessmer@web.de> and Fredrik Edemar <f_edemar@linux.se>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
