.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KSTARS 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kstars \- a desktop planetarium for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kstars
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fB\-\-date\fP \fIdate-and-time\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-paused\fP ]
.PP
.B kstars \fB\-\-dump\fP
[ \fB\-\-filename\fP \fIimage-file\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-height\fP \fIpixels\fP ] [ \fB\-\-width\fP \fIpixels\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-date\fP \fIdate-and-time\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-script\fP \fIscript-file\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKStars\fP is a graphical desktop planetarium for KDE.  It depicts an
accurate simulation of the night sky, including stars, constellations,
star clusters, nebulae, galaxies, all planets, the Sun, the Moon,
comets and asteroids.  You can see the sky as it appears from any
location on Earth, on any date.
.PP
The user interface is highly intuitive and flexible.  The display can
be panned and zoomed with the mouse, and you can easily identify
objects and track their motion across the sky.  KStars includes many
powerful features, yet the interface is clean and simple and fun to use.
.PP
Normally KStars launches a full graphical user interface.  By passing the
\fB\-\-dump\fP option, you can make KStars dump an image of the sky to
a graphics file and exit immediately without launching a graphical user
interface at all.  Several other options are available to control
precisely how this image is dumped.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kstars-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkstars \-\-help\fP.
.PP
Options that can be used when starting the full graphical user interface
are as follows.
.TP
\fB\-\-date\fP \fIdate-and-time\fP
Starts with the simulation clock set to the given date and time (default is
current date and time).
.TP
\fB\-\-paused\fP
Starts with the simulation clock paused.
.PP
Options that can be used when dumping an image of the sky are as
follows.
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fP
Dumps the sky image to a graphics file and exits immediately.
Several other options (described below) are available to control
precisely how the image is dumped.
.TP
\fB\-\-date\fP \fIdate-and-time\fP
Specifies the date and time for the sky image to dump (default is
current date and time).
.TP
\fB\-\-filename\fP \fIimage-file\fP
Dumps the sky image to the given file (default is \fIkstars.png\fP).
.TP
\fB\-\-height\fP \fIpixels\fP
Specifies the height of the sky image to dump (default is 480).
.TP
\fB\-\-script\fP \fIscript-file\fP
Specifies a DCOP script to run before the sky image is dumped.
The script can be used to set where the image is pointing, set the
geographic location, set the time and date, change the zoom level, and
adjust other view options.
.br
KStars includes a script builder (found in the Tools menu) to help
with writing DCOP scripts.  The full user documentation (discussed
below) contains a more detailed explanation of how such scripts can
be written and used.
.TP
\fB\-\-width\fP \fIpixels\fP
Specifies the width of the sky image to dump (default is 640).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR indiserver (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kstars/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kstars/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kstars/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KStars was written by Jason Harris <jharris@30doradus.org>,
Heiko Evermann <heiko@evermann.de>, Thomas Kabelmann <tk78@gmx.de>,
Pablo de Vicente <pvicentea@wanadoo.es>, Jasem Mutlaq <mutlaqja@ikarustech.com>,
Carsten Niehaus <cniehaus@gmx.de>, Mark Hollomon <mhh@mindspring.com>,
Vincent Jagot <vincent.jagot@free.fr> and
Martin Piskernig <martin.piskernig@stuwo.at>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
