.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KWORDQUIZ 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kwordquiz \- a flashcard and vocabulary learning program for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kwordquiz
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.PP
.B kwordquiz
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fB\-m, \-\-mode\fP \fInumber\fP ]
[ \fB\-g, \-\-goto\fP \fIsession\fP ]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKWordQuiz\fP is a flashcard-based tool that helps you to master new
vocabularies.  It may be a language or any other kind of terminology.
.PP
KWordQuiz can open several types of vocabulary data.  Supported
are \fI.kvtml\fP files used by other KDE programs such as KVocTrain,
\fI.wql\fP files used by WordQuiz for Windows, \fI.csv\fP files with
comma-separated text, and \fI.xml.gz\fP
files created by Pauker (\fIhttp://pauker.sourceforge.net/\fP).
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kwordquiz-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkwordquiz \-\-help\fP.
.PP
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-mode\fP \fInumber\fP
Specify the order and direction in which questions are asked.
The \fInumber\fP argument must be 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 (corresponding to the
five entries in the Mode menu).
.TP
\fB\-g, \-\-goto\fP \fIsession\fP
Begin a quiz immediately.  The \fIsession\fP argument may be
\fBflash\fP (for a flashcard quiz), \fBmc\fP (for a multiple choice
quiz) or \fBqa\fP (for a question and answer quiz).
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kwordquiz/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kwordquiz/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kwordquiz/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KWordQuiz was written by Peter Hedlund <peter@peterandlinda.com>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
