.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH LANGEN2KVTML 1 "November 22, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
langen2kvtml \- convert Langenscheidt data files to KVocTrain data files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B langen2kvtml
[ \fB\-\-lang=\fP\fIxx\fP ] [ \fB\-\-trans=\fP\fIxx\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-author=\fP\fIname\fP ] [ \fB\-\-longlesson\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-outdir=\fP\fIdir\fP ] [ \fB\-\-proxy=\fP\fIproxy\fP ]
{ \fB\-\-country=\fP\fIxx\fP | \fIvocfile\fP ... }
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlangen2kvtml\fP is a script that will convert Langenscheidt
data files (*.voc) to KVocTrain data files (*.kvtml).
.PP
For each Langenscheidt data file given on the command-line, a
corresponding KVocTrain data file will be created.  If no Langenscheidt
data files are given, a set of data files for the given country (see
the \fB\-\-country\fP option) will be downloaded from the internet and
converted.  If neither data files nor a country are specified, country
GB (Great Britain) will be assumed.
.PP
Note that you \fBmust\fP run KVocTrain at least once before this script
can be used.  In some circumstances this script will edit the user's
KVocTrain preferences file.
.PP
This utility is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-lang=\fP\fIxx\fP
Specifies the original language used in the data file(s).  The script
will try to guess this based on the names of the Langenscheidt data files.
.TP
\fB\-\-trans=\fP\fIxx\fP
Specifies the translated language used in the data file(s).  This
defaults to de (Deutsch).
.TP
\fB\-\-author=\fP\fIname\fP
Specifies the author of the data file(s).  This defaults to
http://www.vokabeln.de.
.TP
\fB\-\-longlesson\fP
Specifies that long lesson names should be used in the converted
KVocTrain data file(s).  Short lesson names are the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-outdir=\fP\fIdir\fP
Specifies that the converted KVocTrain data files be written in the
given directory.  This defaults to the current directory.
.TP
\fB\-\-proxy=\fP\fIproxy\fP
Specifies a proxy to use when downloading Langenscheidt data files from
the internet.
.TP
\fB\-\-country=\fP\fIxx\fP
Requests that Langenscheidt data files for the given country be
downloaded from the internet and converted.  The country should be
specified by the code used at \fIhttp://www.vokabeln.de/\fP, such as
GB for Great Britain, D for Germany and so on.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kvoctrain (1),
.BR spotlight2kvtml (1).
.PP
Langenscheidt data files can be downloaded directly from
\fIhttp://www.vokabeln.de/files.htm\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
langen2kvtml was written by Andreas Neuper.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
