.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH SPOTLIGHT2KVTML 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
spotlight2kvtml \- convert a Spotlight Online vocabulary list to a
KVocTrain data file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B spotlight2kvtml
.I spotfile month year
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBspotlight2kvtml\fP is used to convert a Spotlight Online vocabulary
list to a KVocTrain data file (*.kvtml).
.PP
The given vocabulary list (\fIspotfile\fP) must be in plain text format
(i.e., you will need to convert the downloaded RTF or Word document into
a plain text file).  The name of the new KVocTrain data file
will be derived from the given \fIspotfile\fP.
.PP
The given month and year will be used in the title and lesson names
in the new KVocTrain data file.
.PP
Note that Spotlight Online changes its vocabulary list format from time
to time, so spotlight2kvtml might be out of date and might not behave
correctly.
.PP
This utility is part of the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kvoctrain (1),
.BR langen2kvtml (1).
.PP
Spotlight Online vocabulary lists can be downloaded from
\fIhttp://www.spotlight-online.de/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
spotlight2kvtml was written by Ewald Arnold <kvoctrain@ewald-arnold.de>
and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
