.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH TEMMA 1 "March 16, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
temma \- Temma Takahashi driver for INDI telescope control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B temma
[ \fB\-v\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
KStars allows you to configure
and control astronomical instruments such as telescopes and focusers via
the INDI protocol.  \fBtemma\fP is a device driver for supporting
particular types of external hardware.
.PP
You should normally not need to run this driver directly.  Instead you
should use KStars to configure and operate your astronomical instruments.
Most operations can be found under the Devices menu within KStars.
.PP
KStars will start the INDI server internally, and the INDI server will
in turn start this device driver.
.PP
Much more detailed information can be found in the KStars Handbook, as
described below.
.PP
KStars is a graphical desktop planetarium for KDE, and forms part of
the official KDE edutainment module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Write more verbose output to stderr.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR indiserver (1),
.BR kstars (1).
.PP
The KStars Handbook contains detailed information on how to use INDI for
telescope control.  You can read this handbook in the KDE Help Centre.
Alternatively you can enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kstars/indi.html\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kstars/indi.html\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdeedu-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kstars/indi.html\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KStars was written by Jason Harris <jharris@30doradus.org>,
Heiko Evermann <heiko@evermann.de>, Thomas Kabelmann <tk78@gmx.de>,
Pablo de Vicente <pvicentea@wanadoo.es>, Jasem Mutlaq <mutlaqja@ikarustech.com>,
Carsten Niehaus <cniehaus@gmx.de>, Mark Hollomon <mhh@mindspring.com>,
Vincent Jagot <vincent.jagot@free.fr> and
Martin Piskernig <martin.piskernig@stuwo.at>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
