<chapter id="xmlcheck">
<chapterinfo>

<title>&XML; Validation</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Daniel.Naber.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
<date>2006-05-17</date>
<releaseinfo>3.5.2</releaseinfo>
<abstract>

<para>This plugin checks &XML; files for well-formedness and validity.</para>

</abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kate</keyword>
<keyword>xml</keyword>
<keyword>DTD</keyword>
</keywordset>
</chapterinfo>

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This plugin checks the current file. A list of warnings and errors
will appears at the bottom of &kate;'s main window. You can click on an error message
to jump to the corresponding place in the file. If the file has a <quote>DOCTYPE</quote>
the DTD given with this doctype will be used to check the file for validity. The
DTD is expected at a position relative to the current file, &eg; if the doctype
refers to <quote>DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd</quote> and the file is <filename>/home/peter/test.xml</filename>
the DTD is expected to be located at <filename>/home/peter/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd</filename>.
However, remote DTDs specified via http are supported.</para>

<para>If the file has no doctype it will be checked for well-formedness.</para>

<para>To learn more about &XML; check out the <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/XML/"> official W3C &XML; pages</ulink>.</para>

<para>Internally this plugin calls the external command <command>xmllint</command>, which 
is part of libxml2. If this command is not correctly installed on your system, the plugin
will not work.</para>

<note><para>A temporary file needs to be written to the same folder as the file
that should be checked, so you need to have write access to that folder.</para></note>

<para>To load this plugin open &kate;s configuration dialog under <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kate;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
Then select <guilabel>Kate XML Validation</guilabel> which will appear
in the <guilabel>Application</guilabel>/<guilabel>Plugins</guilabel> section and close the dialog.
</para>

<sect1 id="xmlcheck-menu">
<title>Menu Structure</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>XML</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Validate XML</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>This will start the check, as described above.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="xmlcheck-thanks-and-acknowledgements">
<title>Thanks and Acknowledgments</title>

<para>
&kate; Plugin <quote>XML Validation</quote> copyright 2002 &Daniel.Naber;
&Daniel.Naber.mail;.
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2002 &Daniel.Naber;
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
<!-- &underFDL; -->
&underGPL;

</sect1>
</chapter>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

