<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE glossary PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd">
To validate or process this file as a standalone document, uncomment
this prolog. Be sure to comment it out again when you are done -->

<glossary id="glossary">

<glossentry id="gloss-alsa">
<glossterm><acronym>ALSA</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Advanced &Linux; Sound Architecture; a &Linux; sound card driver; not
currently included with the standard kernel source code.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-arts">
<glossterm>&arts;</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Analog Real-Time Synthesizer; the name of the multimedia
architecture/library/toolkit used by the &kde; project (note
capitalization)
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-bsd">
<glossterm><acronym>BSD</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Berkeley Software Distribution; here refers to any of several free
&UNIX;-compatible operating systems derived from <acronym>BSD</acronym>
&UNIX;.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-corba">
<glossterm><acronym>CORBA</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Common Object Request Broker Architecture; a standard for implementing
object-oriented remote execution.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-cvs">
<glossterm><acronym>CVS</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Concurrent Versions System; a software configuration management system
used by many software projects including &kde; and &arts;.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="glos-fft">
<glossterm><acronym>FFT</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Fast Fourier Transform; an algorithm for converting data from the time
to frequency domain; often used in signal processing.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-full-duplex">
<glossterm>Full Duplex</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
The ability of a sound card to simultaneously record and play audio.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-gpl">
<glossterm><acronym>GPL</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
<acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License; a software license
created by the Free Software Foundation defining the terms for releasing
free software.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-gui">
<glossterm>&GUI;</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Graphical User Interface
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-idl">
<glossterm><acronym>IDL</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Interface Definition Language; a programming language independent format
for specifying interfaces (methods and data).
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-kde">
<glossterm>&kde;</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
K Desktop Environment; a project to develop a free graphical desktop
environment for &UNIX; compatible systems.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-lgpl">
<glossterm><acronym>LGPL</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
<acronym>GNU</acronym> Lesser General Public License; a software license
created by the Free Software Foundation defining the terms for releasing
free software; less restrictive than the <acronym>GPL</acronym> and
often used for software libraries.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-mcop">
<glossterm>&MCOP;</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Multimedia COmmunication Protocol; the protocol used for communication
between &arts; software modules; similar to <acronym>CORBA</acronym> but
simpler and optimized for multimedia.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-midi">
<glossterm>&MIDI;</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Musical Instrument Digital Interface; a standard protocol for
communication between electronic musical instruments; often also used to
refer to a file format for storing &MIDI; commands.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

<glossentry id="gloss-oss">
<glossterm><acronym>OSS</acronym></glossterm>
<glossdef>
<para>
Open Sound System; the sound drivers included with the &Linux; kernel
(sometimes called <acronym>OSS</acronym>/Free) or a commercial version
sold by 4Front Technologies.
</para>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>

</glossary>
