.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CHEATMAKE 1 "September 27, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cheatmake \- fool make into not rebuilding certain files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cheatmake hidechange
.I file
.br
.B cheatmake show
.br
.B cheatmake why
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcheatmake\fP is used to save time when recompiling.  It can fool \fBmake\fP
into skipping files that haven't changed in a meaningful way.  This can be
used for instance when you change a comment in a file but none of the actual
code.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
The different modes of operation are as follows.
.TP
\fBhidechange\fP \fIfile\fP
Hides the fact that the given file has changed by moving its timestamp
back into the past.  Use this option with care!
.TP
\fBshow\fP
Lists which files make currently needs to rebuild.
.TP
\fBwhy\fP \fIfile\fP
Explains why make must rebuild the given file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
One of the following variables (but not both) should be set if the
source
directory is different from the build directory.
If the build directory is simply a subdirectory of the source directory,
the simpler variable OBJ_SUBDIR should be used.
.TP
OBJ_SUBDIR
Indicates that the build directory is in the given subdirectory of the
source directory.  For instance, if the source directory is \fIkdesdk\fP
and the build directory is \fIkdesdk/obj-i386-linux\fP, then OBJ_SUBDIR
should be set to \fIobj-i386-linux\fP.
.TP
OBJ_REPLACEMENT
A \fBsed\fP expression that is used to transform the source directory
into the build directory.
For instance, if the source directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk\fP and the
build directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk-obj\fP, then OBJ_REPLACEMENT could
be set to \fIs#kdesdk#kdesdk-obj#\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1).
.SH AUTHOR
cheatmake was written by David Faure <faure@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
