.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CVSCHECK 1 "March 26, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cvscheck \- offline status report for files in a checked-out CVS module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvscheck
[ \fB\-u, \-\-unknown\fP ]
[ \fB\-m, \-\-modified\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-missing\fP ]
[ \fB\-t, \-\-tagged\fP ]
[ \fB\-a, \-\-added\fP ]
[ \fB\-r, \-\-removed\fP ]
[ \fB\-c, \-\-conflicts\fP ]
[ \fB\-l, \-\-local\fP ]
[ \fIdir\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcvscheck\fP prints information about the status of your local CVS
checkout without communicating with the server.  This means it is
extremely fast and does not require a network connection.
.PP
The given directories and all of their subdirectories will be processed
recursively (though see the \-\-local option below).
If no directory is given, the current directory and its
recursed subdirectories will be used.
.PP
Each file with an interesting status will be printed with a status
character in front of its name.  The status characters are as follows.
.TP
? \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file is not known to CVS.  Maybe you should add it?
.TP
M \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file is for sure locally modified.
.TP
m \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file \fImight\fP have local changes.  You should diff with the
server to make sure.
.TP
C \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file has a CVS conflict and therefore cannot be committed.
.TP
U \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file is in CVS but is somehow missing in your local checkout.
.TP
T \fIfoobar.c\fP
The file has an unusual sticky CVS tag.
.TP
A \fIfoobar.c\fP
You have "cvs add"ed this file but you have not yet committed.
.TP
R \fIfoobar.c\fP
You have "cvs remove"d this file but you have not yet committed.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
By default cvscheck will display the status for all files in and
beneath the requested directories.  The following options however can be
used to display only files with a particular status and/or in a
particular directory.
.TP
\fB\-u, \-\-unknown\fP
Show only unknown (?) files.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-modified\fP
Show only modified (m/M) files.
.TP
\fB\-\-missing\fP
Show only missing (U) files.
.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-tagged\fP
Show only tagged (T) files.
.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-added\fP
Show only added (A) files.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-removed\fP
Show only removed (R) files.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-conflicts\fP
Show only conflict (C) files.
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-local\fP
Do not recurse.  That is, process the given directory but none of its
subdirectories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cvs (1).
.SH AUTHOR
cvscheck was written by Dirk Mueller <mueller@kde.org> and
Sirtaj Singh Kang <taj@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
