.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CVSLASTCHANGE 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cvslastchange \- display the last committed changes for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvslastchange
\fIfile\fP [ \fIrevision\fP ]
.br
.B cvslastchange
\fBM\fP +\fIdigits\fP -\fIdigits\fP
.I file revision
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcvslastchange\fP displays the last changes committed to the CVS
for the given file.
It does this by launching '\fIcvs log\fP' and '\fIcvs diff\fP'.
.PP
If a revision is passed, the changes committed for that particular revision
will be displayed.  Otherwise the currently checked out revision will be used.
.PP
This tool works with other branches as well as with HEAD.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBM\fP +\fIdigits\fP -\fIdigits\fP
These options are currently ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
CVSLASTCHANGE_KEEP_WHITESPACE
Define this variable if you do not want the whitespace to be modified
in any way when displaying changes.  Usually the whitespace is tidied
up a little before the changes are displayed on screen.
.br
This variable is useful if you are using cvslastchange to extract a
patch that can be applied elsewhere.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cvsbackport (1),
.BR cvsblame (1),
.BR cvsforwardport (1),
.BR cvslastlog (1),
.BR cvsrevertlast (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
