.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXTRACTRC 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
extractrc \- extract message strings from UI and XML GUI files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extractrc
[ \fB\-\-tag\-group=\fP\fIgroup\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-tag=\fP\fIname\fP ... ]
[ \fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP ]
\fIfile\fP ...
.PP
.B extractrc \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBextractrc\fP finds all text tags and other message strings within the
given files.  It then writes the corresponding \fIi18n()\fP calls to
standard output (usually redirected to rc.cpp) so that xgettext can parse
them.
.PP
It understands both Qt designer (.ui) files and XML GUI (.rc) files.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Note that the old \fB\-\-lines\fP option is deprecated; source line
numbers are now always included in comments.
.TP
\fB\-\-tag\-group=\fP\fIgroup\fP
Use a predefined group of tags that we are interested in.
Valid groups are default, koffice and none.
The default group will be used if this option is omitted.
.TP
\fB\-\-tag=\fP\fIname\fP
Extract also the contents of the tag \fIname\fP.
This option may be used multiple times
(e.g., \-\-tag=tag_one \-\-tag=tag_two).
.TP
\fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP
Give all i18n() calls the given context: i18n("\fIname\fP", ...).
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
Display a summary of options.
.SH AUTHOR
This utility was written by Richard Evans <rich@ridas.com> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
