.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH FIXKDEINCLUDES 1 "January 31, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fixkdeincludes \- reduce the number of #includes in KDE source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fixkdeincludes
[ \fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP ]
[ \fB\-e, \-\-experimental\fP ]
[ \fB\-m, \-\-modify\fP ]
[ \fIfile\fP ... ]
.br
.B fixkdeincludes \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfixkdeincludes\fP tries to reduce the number of #includes in C++ source
files.  Much of its processing is specific to KDE sources and so it
might not work so well with sources for non-KDE applications.
.PP
The following problems are identified by fixkdeincludes:
.PP
.RS
Including headers that are no longer supported but which exist for
compatibility with older Qt/KDE versions;
.PP
Including the same file multiple times;
.PP
Using #include <...> instead of #include "...".
.RE
.PP
There is also an experimental mode which tries removing each #include
one at a time (with a few exceptions) to see whether the source still
compiles.  Note that this experimental mode will modify the original sources.
.PP
By default the sources will not be modified; the identified problems
will simply be written to standard output.
.PP
The list of C++ sources to examine should be given on the command-line.
If no files are given, all C++ sources in or beneath the current
directory will be examined (with the exception of directories whose
\fIMakefile.am\fP contains \-UQT_NO_COMPAT or \-UKDE_NO_COMPAT).
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP
Verbose mode.  Additional debugging information is written to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-e, \-\-experimental\fP
Experimental mode, as described above in detail.  Note that this option
implies \fB\-\-modify\fP.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-modify\fP
As well as writing messages to standard output, actually modify the
original sources to fix any problems that were found.
.SH AUTHOR
fixkdeincludes was written by Dirk Mueller <mueller@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
