.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KBABELDICT 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kbabeldict \- the KBabel dictionary for translators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kbabeldict
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.RB "[ " \-\-nosplash " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKBabelDict\fP is part of a suite of programs for editing gettext message
files (PO-files).  This suite is designed to help you translate fast and
consistently.
.PP
This suite includes KBabel, CatalogManager and KBabelDict.  KBabel is an
advanced and easy to use PO-file editor with full navigational and editing
capabilities, syntax checking and statistics.  CatalogManager is a multi
functional catalog manager which allows you to keep track of many
PO-files at once.  KBabelDict (this program) is a dictionary to assist
with searching for common translations.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kbabeldict-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkbabeldict \-\-help\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-nosplash
Disable splashscreen at startup.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kbabel (1),
.BR catalogmanager (1).
.PP
Full user documentation for KBabel is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kbabel/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kbabel/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdesdk-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kbabel/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KBabel was written by Matthias Kiefer <kiefer@kde.org>,
Wolfram Diestel <wolfram@steloj.de>, Andrea Rizzi <rizzi@kde.org>,
Stanislav Visnovsky <visnovsky@kde.org>, Marco Wegner <dubbleu@web.de>,
Asgeir Frimannsson <asgeirf@redhat.com>,
Dwayne Bailey <dwayne@translate.org.za>,
Bram Schoenmakers <bramschoenmakers@kde.nl> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
