.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PRUNEEMPTYDIRS 1 "September 27, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
pruneemptydirs \- detects stale source dirs in a CVS tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pruneemptydirs
[ \fB\-f\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpruneemptydirs\fP is used to clean up a local CVS tree.
It detects directories containing remnants of old stuff which has been
removed from the CVS.  Such stale directories often break compilation.
The current directory and all directories beneath it will be examined.
.PP
Note that this tool does not remove anything; it simply prints what to
do as a series of remove commands.  You can copy and paste these commands,
or use them with eval in a script.
.PP
This tool works better if the source directory is not the same as the
build directory, since it will not print directories containing old
executables.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fP
Actually perform the deletions instead of just printing them out.
Use this option with care (no warranties, etc.)!
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
One of the following variables (but not both) should be set if the source
directory is different from the build directory.
If the build directory is simply a subdirectory of the source directory,
the simpler variable OBJ_SUBDIR should be used.
.TP
OBJ_SUBDIR
Indicates that the build directory is in the given subdirectory of the
source directory.  For instance, if the source directory is \fIkdesdk\fP
and the build directory is \fIkdesdk/obj-i386-linux\fP, then OBJ_SUBDIR
should be set to \fIobj-i386-linux\fP.
.TP
OBJ_REPLACEMENT
A \fBsed\fP expression that is used to transform the source directory
into the build directory.
For instance, if the source directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk\fP and the
build directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk-obj\fP, then OBJ_REPLACEMENT could
be set to \fIs#kdesdk#kdesdk-obj#\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
pruneemptydirs was written by David Faure <faure@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
