.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH QTDOC 1 "January 31, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
qtdoc \- view documentation for a Qt class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qtdoc
.RI "[ " classname " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqtdoc\fP opens a Qt help page in kfm/konqueror.
If \fIclassname\fP is given, it opens the help page for that class (note
that the class name is case insensitive).  Otherwise the main Qt help
page is opened.  It is assumed that you have the Qt documentation
installed.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
QTDIR
The directory beneath which the Qt documentation is installed.
Thus the main Qt help page should be in \fI$QTDIR/doc/html/\fP.
If $QTDIR is not set, \fI/usr/share/qt3\fP will be assumed.
.SH EXAMPLES
To bring up help on class QString:
.PP
.RS
qtdoc QString
.RE
.SH DEBIAN USERS
The Qt documentation is in the Debian package \fIqt3-doc\fP, which will
need to be installed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kdedoc (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
