.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH SPLIT2PO 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
split2po \- creates a PO-file from two DocBook XML files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B split2po
.I original-XML translated-XML
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsplit2po\fP is a command-line tool that takes the two given DocBook
XML files and produces a gettext message file (PO-file) that represents
the changes between them.  The resulting PO-file is sent to standard
output.
.PP
.I translated-XML
must be the result of translating
.I original-XML
into another language.  It is this translation that the resulting
PO-file will represent.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
NO_CREDITS
If set, the "ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS" and "CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS" messages
will be omitted.  By default these are always included at the end of
the PO-file, with empty message strings.
.br
These messages are used with KDE documentation, so you may wish to set
NO_CREDITS if you are working with some other type of non-KDE documentation.
.TP
REPORT_MISMATCHES
Set this variable to "no" if you wish mismatch reporting to be
suppressed.  By default, any apparent mismatches between the two XML
files will be noted on standard error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR po2xml (1),
.BR swappo (1),
.BR transxx (1),
.BR xml2pot (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The PO-XML tools were written by Stephan Kulow <coolo@kde.org> and
Peter Wells <pete@yamuna.demon.co.uk>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
