.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH SWAPPO 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
swappo \- swap msgid and msgstr fields in a PO-file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B swappo
.I PO-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBswappo\fP reads the given PO-file and swaps the \fImsgid\fP and
\fImsgstr\fP fields for every message.  The result is a new PO-file that
translates in the opposite direction.  For example, if \fIPO-file\fP
translates from English to French, the new PO-file will translate from
French to English.
.PP
The new PO-file will be written to standard output.  The old PO-file
will remain untouched.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR po2xml (1),
.BR split2po (1),
.BR transxx (1),
.BR xml2pot (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The PO-XML tools were written by Stephan Kulow <coolo@kde.org> and
Peter Wells <pete@yamuna.demon.co.uk>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
