.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH TRANSXX 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
transxx \- create a basic fleshed-out PO-file from a PO-template file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B transxx
[ \fB\-\-text\fP \fItranslation\fP ]
.I template
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtransxx\fP is a command-line tool that produces a basic fleshed-out
PO-file from a PO-template file.  Some of the formatting and
structure of the \fImsgid\fP strings will be copied to the \fImsgstr\fP
strings, but otherwise text will be translated to "xx".
.PP
The fleshed-out PO-file is sent to standard output.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-text\fP \fItranslation\fP
Use the given translation everywhere instead of "xx".
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR po2xml (1),
.BR split2po (1),
.BR swappo (1),
.BR xml2pot (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The PO-XML tools were written by Stephan Kulow <coolo@kde.org> and
Peter Wells <pete@yamuna.demon.co.uk>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
