.TH "lisa" "8" "December 2005" 

.SH "NAME" 
lisa \-  LAN Information Server

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP 
.B lisa 
[options]

.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the 
.B lisa
command. 
.PP
.B lisa
is intended to provide a kind of "network neighbourhood" but only relaying on
the TCP/IP protocol stack, no smb or whatever. The list of running hosts is
provided via TCP port 7741.

.SH "OPTIONS" 
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config=\fIFILE\fR
Read
.I FILE
instead of $(HOME)/.lisarc and /etc/lisarc. 
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port" " PORTNR"
Start the server on the portnumber
.IR PORTNR .
If you use this, LISa won't be able to
cooperate with other LISa's in the network.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Start quiet without the greeting message.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-unix
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kde1
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-kde2
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print out a short version info.

.SH SIGNALS
.PP
If you send the Hangup-Signal to \fBlisa\fR, it will reread its
configuration file (killall -HUP lisa).
.PP
If you send the User1-Signal to \fBlisa\fR, it will print some status
information to the standard output (killall -USR1 lisa). You won't see 
anything if the console from which \fBlisa\fR was started has terminated.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.BR reslisa (8)
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/lisa/README.gz

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP
.B LISa
is Copyright (c) 2000-2003 by Alexander Neundorf <neundorf@kde.org>.
.PP 
This manual page was written by Francois Wendling <frwendling@free.fr>. You can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version. 

