.TH "reslisa" "8" "December 2005" 

.SH "NAME" 
reslisa \-  Restricted LAN Information Server

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP 
.B reslisa 
[options]

.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the 
.B reslisa
command. 
.PP
If you have very strict security rules in your network or you don't want to
have another port open or whatever, you can use 
.B resLISa
instead of
.BR lisa (1).

.SH "OPTIONS" 
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config=\fIFILE\fR
Read
.I FILE
instead of $(HOME)/.reslisarc and /etc/reslisarc. 
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Start quiet without the greeting message.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-unix
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kde1
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-K, \-\-kde2
Deprecated.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print out a short version info.

.SH SIGNALS
.PP
If you send the Hangup-Signal to \fBreslisa\fR, it will reread its
configuration file (killall -HUP reslisa).
.PP
If you send the User1-Signal to \fBreslisa\fR, it will print some status
information to the standard output (killall -USR1 reslisa). You won't see 
anything if the console from which \fBreslisa\fR was started has terminated.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.BR lisa (8)
.TP
.I /usr/share/doc/lisa/README.gz

.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP
.B LISa
is Copyright (c) 2000-2003 by Alexander Neundorf <neundorf@kde.org>.
.PP 
This manual page was written by Francois Wendling <frwendling@free.fr>. You can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version. 

