.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIF.PY 1 "February 4, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
exif.py \- extract EXIF information from digital camera image files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exif.py
\fIimage-file\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a Python library for extracting EXIF tags from digital camera
image files.  It contains a command-line testing and debugging interface,
which reads EXIF tags from the given files and dumps them to the
console.
.PP
This library is provided with the image conversion and transformation
plugins for Konqueror.  The JPEG rotation/reflection tool \fBjpegorient\fP,
part of the same set of plugins, makes use of this library.
.PP
This utility is part of the official KDE add-ons module.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jpegorient (1),
.BR konqueror (1),
.BR orient.py (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The EXIF extraction library was written by Thierry Bousch
<bousch@topo.math.u-psud.fr>, Gene Cash <gcash@cfl.rr.com> and
Leif Jensen <jensen@math.columbia.edu>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
