.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH FSVIEW 1 "February 4, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fsview \- a filesystem viewer that graphically shows disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fsview
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fIfolder\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBFSView\fP is a tool for showing disc utilization in a graphical form, much
like the UNIX command 'du'.  The visualisation type chosen is a
treemap.  Each directory is represented by a rectangle whose area is
proportional to its size.  Each directory rectangle contains smaller
rectangles for its contents, and so on down.
.PP
FSView is provided both as a Konqueror plugin for viewing directories,
and as a standalone executable.
.PP
This application is part of the official KDE add-ons module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the fsview-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIfsview \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fIfolder\fP
View the filesystem starting from this folder.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR du (1),
.BR kdirstat (1),
.BR konqueror (1).
.PP
For a full featured graphical 'du', see KDirStat.  It's quite similar
to FSView, but allows for lot of cleanup actions.
.SH AUTHOR
FSView was written by Josef Weidendorfer <Josef.Weidendorfer@gmx.de>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
