.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH JPEGORIENT 1 "October 13, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
jpegorient \- change the orientations of JPEG images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jpegorient
{ \fB\-90\fP | \fB\-180\fP | \fB\-270\fP | \fB\-v\fP | \fB\-h\fP }
\fIimage-file\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a simple utility for changing the orientations of one or more
JPEG images.
It is provided as part of the image conversion and transformation
plugins for Konqueror.
.PP
A single option must be passed before any filenames to specify how the
orientations of the images are to be changed.  Each new image will be
saved over the old one.
.PP
This utility makes use of
.BR orient.py (1),
which is designed to work with certain types of digital camera image
files.  Instead of modifying the image data, it alters the EXIF
tags stored with the image to reflect the new orientation.  For this
reason only images with the correct types of EXIF tags can be changed
using this tool.
.PP
This utility is part of the official KDE add-ons module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-90\fP
Rotate each image by 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
\fB\-180\fP
Rotate each image by a half turn (i.e., 180 degrees).
.TP
\fB\-270\fP
Rotate each image by 270 degrees clockwise (i.e., 90 degrees counter-clockwise).
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Flip each image vertically.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP
Flip each image horizontally.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exif.py (1),
.BR konqueror (1),
.BR orient.py (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The image transformation plugins were written by
Leif Jensen <jensen@math.columbia.edu>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
