.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH LNKFORWARD 1 "October 23, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
lnkforward \- open an URL in a Windows .lnk file under KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lnkforward
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-map\fP \fIdrive\fP=\fIpath\fP ... ]
\fIURL\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlnkforward\fP examines a Windows .lnk file, determines its target and
then opens this target file.  In deciding how to open the target file,
the usual KDE file associations will be used.
.PP
The given URL must include a protocol.  Specifically, if it is simply a
file on the local filesystem, it must be given in the form
\fIfile:/path/to/file.lnk\fP.
.PP
Drive mappings must be supplied (via \-\-map) for any Windows drive
referred to in the .lnk file.  See the OPTIONS section below for details.
.PP
This utility is used by the .lnk kfile plugin, and is
part of the official KDE add-ons module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the lnkforward-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIlnkforward \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-map\fP \fIdrive\fP=\fIpath\fP
Map the given Windows drive to the given path on the local filesystem
(generally its mount point).
This option may be passed multiple times.
.SH EXAMPLE
Suppose that the Windows file \fIc:\\readme.txt.lnk\fP is a link to
\fId:\\foo\\bar.txt\fP.  Then the following command will open the file
\fI/mnt/data/foo/bar.txt\fP in the usual KDE text editor:
.PP
.RS
\fIprompt$\fP
lnkforward \-\-map c=/mnt/windows \-\-map d=/mnt/data /mnt/windows/readme.lnk
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
This utility was written by Martin Koller <m.koller@surfeu.at>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
