.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ORIENT.PY 1 "October 13, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
orient.py \- change the orientation of a digital camera image file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B orient.py
.I image-file
.br
.B orient.py
[1-8]
.I image-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a small script for changing the orientation of certain types
of digital camera image files.  The image data is not modified, but
rather the EXIF tags stored with the image are altered to reflect the
new orientation.  For this reason only images with the correct types of
EXIF tags can be changed using this script.
.PP
When called with with a numeric argument from 1 to 8, the orientation
will be changed as described in the options section below.  When called
with only a filename, the current orientation will be written to the
console (also as a number from 1 to 8).
.PP
If the image contains no EXIF information or if the EXIF information is not
of the correct type, an error will be displayed and this script will
exit immediately.
.PP
This script is provided with the image conversion and transformation
plugins for Konqueror.  For a more general-purpose JPEG rotation/reflection
tool, see
.BR jpegorient (1)
which is also a part of this same set of plugins.
.PP
This utility is part of the official KDE add-ons module.
.SH OPTIONS
The possible orientations are represented by the numbers 1 to 8 as
follows.
.TP
.B 1
No change of orientation.
.TP
.B 2
Flip horizontally.
.TP
.B 3
Rotate by a half turn (i.e., 180 degrees).
.TP
.B 4
Flip vertically.
.TP
.B 5
Transpose image (i.e., reflect across the upper-left to lower-right
diagonal axis).
.TP
.B 6
Rotate by 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
.B 7
Transverse transpose image (i.e., reflect across the upper-right to
lower-left diagonal axis).
.TP
.B 8
Rotate by 270 degrees clockwise (i.e., 90 degrees counter-clockwise).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exif.py (1),
.BR jpegorient (1),
.BR konqueror (1).
.SH AUTHOR
The image transformation plugins were written by
Leif Jensen <jensen@math.columbia.edu>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
