<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" 
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&ksysv;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeadmin">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &ksysv; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Peter</firstname>
<surname>Putzer</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>putzer@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-03-21</date>
<releaseinfo>1.03.06</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>1998</year>
<year>2000</year>
<year>2001</year>
<holder>Peter Putzer</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>&ksysv; is a graphical editor for the SysV style init
configuration.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KSysV</keyword>
<keyword>Runlevel</keyword>
<keyword>Runlevel editor</keyword>
<keyword>System V init</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
Welcome to the &kde; System V Init Editor, commonly known (and hereafter
referenced) as &ksysv;. This section introduces a few concepts and explains what
you can do with &ksysv;.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="what-is-sysv-init">
<title>A Brief Description of System V Init</title>

<para>
The following explanation is <quote>borrowed</quote> from
<application>tksysv</application> (an inspiration for &ksysv;):
</para>

<para>
System V init is fast becoming the standard in the &Linux; world to
control the startup of software at boot time. This is because it is
arguably easier to use and more powerful and flexible than the
traditional <acronym>BSD</acronym> init.
</para>

<para>
I won't go into the history here (mainly because I don't know it :-).
</para>

<para>
The init binary is located in <filename class="directory">/sbin</filename> and
not <filename class="directory">/etc</filename>. This is important as one might
try and upgrade a machine to System V init without re-installing and
reformatting. The &Linux; kernel looks in <filename
class="directory">/etc</filename> for its init first, so you must make sure and
delete your old init from there if any.
</para>

<para>SysV init also differs from <acronym>BSD</acronym> init in that
the config files are in a subfolder of <filename
class="directory">/etc</filename> instead of residing directly in
<filename class="directory">/etc</filename>. This folder is called
<filename class="directory">rc.d</filename>. In there you will find
<filename>rc.sysinit</filename> and the following folders:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">init.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc0.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc1.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc2.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc3.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc4.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc5.d/</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename class="directory">rc6.d</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
<filename class="directory">init.d</filename> contains a bunch of
scripts. Basically, you need one script for each service you may need to
start at boot time or when entering another runlevel. Services include
things like networking, <acronym>NFS</acronym>, &Sendmail;, httpd,&etc;
Services do not include things like <command>setserial</command> that
must only be run once and then exited.  Things like that should go in
the file <filename>rc.local</filename>.
</para>

<para>
<filename>rc.local</filename> should be in <filename
class="directory">/etc/rc.d</filename> if you want one. Most systems
include one even though it doesn't do much. You can also include an
<filename>rc.serial</filename> in <filename
class="directory">/etc/rc.d</filename> if you need to do serial port
specific things at boot time.
</para>

<para>The chain of events is as follows: </para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
The kernel looks in several places for init and runs the first one it
finds.
</para> 
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
init runs <filename>/etc/rc.d/rc.sysinit</filename>.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
<filename>rc.sysinit</filename> does a bunch of necessary things and then runs
<filename>rc.serial</filename> (if it exists)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
init runs <filename>rc.local</filename>
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
init runs all the scripts for the default runlevel
</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>


<para>
The default runlevel is decided in
<filename>/etc/inittab</filename>. You should have a line close to the
top like:
</para>

<screen>id:3:initdefault:</screen>

<para>
From this, you'd look in the second column and see that the default
runlevel is 3, as should be the case for most systems. If you want to
change it, you can edit <filename>/etc/inittab</filename> by hand and
change the 3. Be very careful when you are messing with the inittab. If
you do mess up, you can get in to fix it by rebooting and doing:
</para>

<screen><computeroutput>LILO boot:</computeroutput> <userinput>linux single</userinput></screen>

<para>
This <emphasis>should</emphasis> allow you to boot into single user mode
so you can fix it.  </para>

<para>
Now, how does it run all the right scripts? If you do an
<userinput><command>ls</command> <option>-l</option></userinput> on
<filename class="directory">rc3.d</filename>, you might see something
like:
</para>


<screen>lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 13:11 S10network -&gt; ../init.d/network 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 16 13:11 S30syslog -&gt; ../init.d/syslog 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 14 13:32 S40cron -&gt; ../init.d/cron
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 14 13:11 S50inet -&gt; ../init.d/inet
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 13 13:11 S60nfs -&gt; ../init.d/nfs
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 15 13:11 S70nfsfs -&gt; ../init.d/nfsfs
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 18 13:11 S75keytable -&gt; ../init.d/keytable
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 23 13:11 S80sendmail -&gt; ../init.d/sendmail.init
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 18 13:11 S90lpd -&gt; ../init.d/lpd.init
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 11 13:11 S99local -&gt; ../rc.local</screen>

<para>
What you'll notice is that there are no real files in the folder.
Everything there is a link to one of the scripts in the <filename
class="directory">init.d</filename> folder.
</para>

<para>
The links also have an <literal>S</literal> and a number at the
beginning. The <literal>S</literal> means to start this particular
script and a <literal>K</literal> would mean to stop it. The number is
just there for ordering purposes. Init will start all the services based
on the order they appear. You can duplicate numbers, but it will only
confuse you somewhat. You just need to use a two digit number only,
along with an upper case <literal>S</literal> or <literal>K</literal> to
start or stop the services you need to.
</para>

<para>
How does it start and stop services? Simple. Each of the scripts is
written to accept an argument which can be <option>start</option> and
<option>stop</option>. You can execute those scripts by hand in fact
with a command like:
</para>

<screen><userinput><command>/etc/rc.d/init.d/httpd.init</command> <option>stop</option></userinput></screen>

<para>
To stop the httpd server. Init just reads the name and if it has a
<literal>K</literal>, it calls the script with the <option>stop</option>
argument. If it has an <option>S</option> it calls the script with a
<option>start</option> argument.  </para>


<sect1 id="why-all-the-runlevels">
<title>Why All These Runlevels ?</title>

<para>
Some people want an easy way to setup machines to be multi-purpose. I
could have a <quote>server</quote> runlevel that just runs httpd,
sendmail, networking, &etc; Then I could have a <quote>user</quote>
runlevel that runs <application>kdm</application>, networking, &etc;
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="onscreen-fundamentals">
<title>Onscreen Fundamentals</title>

<para>
Here you learn how to use &ksysv;, which shouldn't be hard since it was
designed to be as user-friendly as possible.
</para>

<sect1 id="mouse">
<title>Mouse</title>

<para>
Using &ksysv; with a mouse or other pointing device is easy: just drag
an entry from the <guilabel> Available Services</guilabel> area onto one
of the six runlevels to start (or resp. stop) it in that runlevel.
</para>

<para>
You can also move scripts between runlevels, or change the position in a
given runlevel, by dragging it around. Doing so removes the entry from
its original runlevel (or position). This doesn't happen when you drag
an entry from the <guilabel>Available Services</guilabel> area.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Entries are moved when you drag them to a new area. To copy a service to
a different runlevel, you have to select <guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
from the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> or context menu and
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem> it in the target runlevel.
</para>
</note>

<para>
The <quote>sorting number</quote> of an entry sometimes cannot be
calculated.  In such a case you have to edit the sorting numbers of
surrounding entries before re-trying to insert the service.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Sorting numbers can range from 00 to 99, but no higher.
</para>
</note>

<para>
You can delete entries by dragging them onto the <guiicon>Trash
Can</guiicon> area (symbolized by an icon depicting a garbage bin).
</para>

<warning>
<para>
Currently there is <emphasis>no</emphasis> way to recover items dragged
onto the <guiicon>Trash Can</guiicon>, so be careful!
</para>
</warning>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="keyboard">
<title>Keyboard</title>

<para>
You can use the <keycap>Tab</keycap> key to switch focus between
different panels (<guilabel>Available Services</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Runlevel 1 Start</guilabel>, <guilabel>Runlevel 1
Stop</guilabel>, &etc;) and the cursor keys to move the selection up and
down.
</para>

<para>
To move an entry to a different runlevel, <guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
it to the clipboard (using <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo> and <guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem> it in
the target runlevel (with <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>).
</para>

<para>
To manually change an entries sorting number or name, press
<keycap>Enter</keycap> to open the properties dialog. Use the
<keycap>Tab</keycap> key to switch between different fields. Close the
dialog by pressing <keycap>Enter</keycap> to accept the modifications,
or press <keycap>Esc</keycap> to cancel any changes.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-menu-entries">
<title>The Menu Entries</title>

<para>
A one by one description of &ksysv;'s menu.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu</title>

<para>
Because of the danger of data loss, all menu entries under
<guimenu>File</guimenu> ask for confirmation before doing their work.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Revert Configuration...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Forget any changes you have made, and revert to the last saved configuration.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Open a previously saved configuration.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Configuration</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Make your changes permanent.</action>  Saving does not generate any
backup files, so use with care.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Save a copy of your new configuration.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Log...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Save a log</action> <!-- FIXME: find out what the log is of.  Assume -->
<!-- changes made, but best check -->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print Log...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Print a copy of the log.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Quit</action> &ksysv;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Undo the last unsaved change made.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>Shift</keycap>
<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Redo the last item undone.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>X</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Cut the currently selected service to the clipboard.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Copy the selected entry to the clipboard, without removing it from its
original position.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Paste the content of the clipboard at the current cursor
position.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Open the properties dialog for the selected item.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Start Service...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Start the selected service</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Stop Service...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Stop the selected service</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Restart Service...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Restart the selected service.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit Service...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Edit the selected service</action><!-- FIXME: Add some more "meat" to 
-->
<!-- this one! -->
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Toggle on and off display of the toolbar.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Toggle on and off display of the statusbar.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Log</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Toggle on and off the display of the log window</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Settings</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Save your current settings.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Key bindings...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Customize the default keybindings.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Customize the toolbar.</action>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure SysV-Init Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Customize the behavior</action> of &ksysv;
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Configuration">
<title>Configuration</title>

<para>
All options are saved in
<filename>$<envar>KDEHOME</envar>/share/config/ksysvrc</filename>. Defaults
are taken from the global file
(<filename>$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/config/ksysvrc</filename>), if
available, or else generated within &ksysv;. Changes to the defaults
are stored in your local <filename>ksysvrc</filename>.
</para>

<sect1 id="recognized-sections">
<title>Recognized Sections</title>

<para>
Recognized sections and keys plus their default values.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>&lsqb;Path Settings&rsqb;</title>

<segmentedlist>
<segtitle>Keyword</segtitle>
<segtitle>Default</segtitle>
<segtitle>Description</segtitle>
<seglistitem>
<seg>ScriptPath</seg>
<seg><filename class="directory">/etc/rc.d/init.d</filename></seg>
<seg>Path to the scripts used for starting and stopping services.</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>RunlevelPath</seg>
<seg><filename class="directory">/etc/rc.d</filename></seg>
<seg>Path to the runlevel subfolders.</seg>
</seglistitem>

</segmentedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>&lsqb;Colors&rsqb;</title>


<segmentedlist>
<segtitle>Keyword</segtitle>
<segtitle>Default</segtitle>
<segtitle>Description</segtitle>
<seglistitem>
<seg>Changed</seg>
<seg>red</seg>
<seg>Color used for changed entries</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>New</seg>
<seg>blue</seg>
<seg>Color used for new entries</seg>
</seglistitem>

</segmentedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>&lsqb;Geometry&rsqb;</title>

<segmentedlist>
<segtitle>Keyword</segtitle>
<segtitle>Default</segtitle>
<segtitle>Description</segtitle>
<seglistitem>
<seg>Width</seg>
<seg></seg>
<seg>Width of &ksysv;'s window</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>Height</seg>
<seg></seg>
<seg>Height of &ksysv;'s</seg>
</seglistitem>
</segmentedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>&lsqb;Other Settings&rsqb;</title>

<segmentedlist>
<segtitle>Keyword</segtitle>
<segtitle>Default</segtitle>
<segtitle>Description</segtitle>
<seglistitem>
<seg>ToolBar</seg>
<seg>true</seg>
<seg>If the toolbar is enabled or not</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>StatusBar</seg>
<seg>true</seg>
<seg>If the statusbar is enabled or not</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>ShowLog</seg>
<seg>true</seg>
<seg>If the log window is shown or not</seg>
</seglistitem>

<seglistitem>
<seg>PanningFactor</seg>
<seg>80</seg>
<seg>100 - PanningFactor = percentage of window reserved for the logfile
display</seg>
</seglistitem>
</segmentedlist>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="questions-and-answers">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I played around with the default runlevel, and now my machine reboots
all the time. What can I do?
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Enter <userinput>linux single</userinput> at the
<acronym>LILO</acronym> prompt, and press <keycap>Enter</keycap> to
boot into single user mode.  Edit the file
<filename>/etc/inittab</filename> and change to the default runlevel
to something sane. <literal>3</literal> should normally be safe.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
My Machine <quote>halts</quote> just after booting
</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
See Question 1, above.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>
I scheduled some services to be run in runlevel X using &ksysv;, so why
aren't they working?
</para>
</question>

<answer>
<para>
If you're using SuSE or Delix (DLD) distributions, you also have to edit
a distribution specific file in <filename
class="directory">/etc</filename>.  Please have a look at the manual of
your distribution for details.
</para>
<para>
<note>
<para>
The approach to starting services used by the above mentioned
distributions makes configuration of services easy for the proprietary
configuration tools these distributions provide, but it is unfortunately
non-standard.  The &ksysv; authors plan to write a generic extension for
this approach some time in the future, but don't hold your breath.
</para>
</note>
</para>
<para>
If you're using a different distribution, please check you have all the
config files needed by the service, and whether they are in the correct
locations.  Some daemons for example <application>Apache</application>,
(<acronym>aka</acronym> <command>httpd</command>) just die silently if
their configuration files are missing or misconfigured.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

</qandaset>

</chapter>

<chapter id="standard-runlevels">
<title>Standard semantics of Runlevels</title>

<para>
These vary by distribution, so this is an incomplete list of the most
common &Linux; distributions.  If you have additional distributions,
please email the author and have the information added to this manual.
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>&RedHat;</term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 0:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
halt (shuts down the machine)
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 1:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Single user mode.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 2:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Multi user text only, without <acronym>NFS</acronym>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 3:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Multi user text-only, with full networking.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 4:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Not used.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 5:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Multi user X11 with full networking.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Runlevel 6:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Reboot
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>License and Credits</title>
<para>&ksysv;  Copyright &copy; 1997-1998 Peter Putzer</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Peter Putzer, <email>putzer@kde.org</email> - Developer
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Documentation:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Peter Putzer, <email>putzer@kde.org</email> - Original content </para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>Eric Bischoff, <email>e.bischoff@noos.fr</email> - Editor
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
 
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

&install.intro.documentation;
&install.compile.documentation;
</appendix>

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

