<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kdesudo '<application>kdesudo</application>'>
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kdesudo;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdebase">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>

<title>The &kdesudo; handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Robert</firstname>
<surname>Gruber</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>rgruber@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2003</year>
<holder>Robert Gruber</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2002-03-29</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>


<abstract><para>&kdesudo; is a graphical front end for the
<command>sudo</command> command.</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>sudo</keyword>
<keyword>password</keyword>
<keyword>root</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>Welcome to &kdesudo;! &kdesudo; is a graphical front end for the
<command>su</command> command for the K Desktop Environment.
It allows you to run a program as different user if the sys admin allows
it. &kdesudo; is an unprivileged program; it uses
the system's <command>sudo</command> command.</para>

<para>This program is meant to be started from the command line or
from <filename>.desktop</filename> files.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kdesu">
<title>Using &kdesudo;</title>

<para>Usage of &kdesudo; is easy. The syntax is like this:</para>

    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>kdesudo</command>
      <arg>-u <replaceable>RUNAS</replaceable></arg>
      <arg>COMMAND</arg>
    </cmdsynopsis>

<para>The command line options are explained below.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>COMMAND</option></term>
<listitem><para>This is the command that <command>sudo</command> will execute.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-u <replaceable>RUNAS</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>This option allow to run COMMAND as a different user which
is specified at RUNAS</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Author">
<title>Author</title>

<para>&kdesudo;</para>

<para>Copyright 2003 Robert Gruber</para>

<para>The author can be reached through email at
<email>rgruber@users.sourceforge.net</email>.  Please report any bugs you
find to me so that I can fix them. If you have a suggestion, feel free
to contact me.</para>

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="downloading">
<title>Downloading</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compiling">
<title>Compiling</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>
</appendix>

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

