<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "&ksirtet;">
 <!ENTITY package "kdegames">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &ksirtet; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
&Nicolas.Hadacek;
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>


<copyright>
<year>1999</year><year>2000</year>
<holder>&Nicolas.Hadacek;</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2005-12-17</date>
<releaseinfo>2.1.11b</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&ksirtet; is a clone of the well known game Tetris. You must fit the
falling pieces to form full lines.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>tetris</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&ksirtet; is a clone of the well known game <application>Tetris</application>. You
must fit the falling pieces to form full lines. You can rotate and translate
the falling piece. The game ends when no more pieces can fall, &ie; when your
incomplete lines reach the top of the board.
</para>

<para>
Every time you have destroyed 10 lines, you advance to the next level and the
pieces fall quicker (to be precise, the pieces fall from the top of the screen each
<literal>1/(1+level)</literal> second).
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="how-to-play">
<title>How to Play</title>

<sect1 id="handling-the-falling-piece">
<title>Handling the Falling Piece</title>

<para>
You can use the keyboard to rotate, translate or drop down the falling piece. The
keys are configurable via the menu item <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="game-types">
<title>Game Types</title>
<para>&ksirtet; supports two types of single player game: Normal and Arcade. In
Normal mode, points totals are kept, and high scores recorded. Also, when advancing
to the next level, play continues without clearing the gameboard. In Arcade
mode, no points totals are kept, although an <guilabel>Elapsed time</guilabel>
counter is shown. When you advance to the next level in Arcade mode, the
gameboard is cleared of pieces.</para>
<para>You can choose the game mode in the <guimenu>Mode</guimenu> menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="how-to-gain-points">
<title>How to gain Points</title>

<para>There are two sources of points:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Dropping down a piece using the <keysym>Down Arrow</keysym> gives a small
number of points which is equal to the drop height. It is not much each time
but is particularly relevant in the earlier levels, when the pieces fall more
slowly.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
The biggest part of the score comes from destroying full lines. It is very
important to note that destroying multiple lines at the same time gives you a
lot more points. A four-lines destruction is called a <quote>tetris</quote>:
it gives a maximum amount of points.
</para>

<para>
The points gained are 40 for a one-liner, 100 for two lines, 300 for three lines
and 1200 for a tetris. These numbers are multiplied by the current
level. For example, destroying four lines in level 10 gives 12,000 points.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="options">
<title>Configuring &ksirtet;</title>

<para>
The &ksirtet; configuration is accessed from the menu item
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &ksirtet;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. The
options are as follows:
</para>

<sect2 id="game-config">
<title>Game Configuration</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Initial level:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Set the level which you will play at startup, from 1 (easiest)
to 20 (hardest). Default is level one.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Direct drop down</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, pressing the <keysym>Down Arrow</keysym> will cause
a tile to immediately fall to the bottom of the screen. If unchecked, pressing
the <keysym>Down Arrow</keysym> only causes the piece to fall until the key is released.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Old rotation style</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>&ksirtet; has two ways of rotating each piece:
<quote>Old</quote> style and <quote>New</quote> style. Each style uses a
different point to rotate the piece around. Try both, and see which one you prefer.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="appearance-config">
<title>Appearance Configuration</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable animations</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, pieces are shown with an
animation (a small rebound effect), when they touch the bottom.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Show piece's shadow</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, a shadow is placed beneath the game board
showing where the piece will fall.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show next piece</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked, shows the next tile that will fall onto the
game board.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term><guilabel>Show detailed "removed lines"
field</guilabel></term> <listitem><para>If checked, the <guilabel>Removed
Lines</guilabel> counter on the left of the screen shows how many times each
number of lines have been removed. If unchecked, just the total number removed
is shown.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
	
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Background</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Select the color and the opacity for &ksirtet; background. 
An opacity of zero makes the &ksirtet; background
completely transparent, and a setting of one makes the &ksirtet; background
completely opaque.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="colors-config">
<title>Colors Configuration</title>
<para>Here you can select the colors used for the tiles in &ksirtet;.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="ai-config">
<title>A.I. Configuration</title>
<para>Here you can configure the A.I. in &ksirtet;.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="highscore-configuration">
<title>Configuring Highscores</title>
<para>
The configuration is accessed from
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Highscores...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. The
options are as follows:
</para>

<sect2 id="highscore-main-config">
<title>The <guilabel>Main</guilabel> Tab</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nickname:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Displays your current nickname and allows you to change it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Comment</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>A comment about yourself. You choose...</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>World-wide highscores enabled</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If checked and if you are connected to the Internet, 
&ksirtet; will send your score automatically at the end of the game 
to the highscore web server (ksirtet.sf.net).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="highscore-advanced-config">
<title>The <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> Tab</title>

<para>This tab displays your <guilabel>Registration Data</guilabel>
on ksirtet.sf.net:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nickname:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Displays your current nickname from the <guilabel>Main</guilabel> tab.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Key:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This key was generated when you registered on ksirtet.sf.net by 
selecting <guilabel>World-wide highscores enabled</guilabel> the first time.
The registration key is used in conjunction with the 
nickname to identify uniquely users, but users cannot have the same nickname.
Click on the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button to delete you from the world highscores
list.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<!-- Old description
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show tile's shadow</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows/hides the shadow of the falling piece at the bottom of the board. This
shadow can help to avoid position error when dropping the piece.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show next tile</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows/hides the display of the next piece to come.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable animations</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>

</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Block Size</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Lets you change the size of the blocks (and increases the playing field to
match.  The default size is 15 pixels.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
-->

</chapter>

<chapter id="multiplayer">
<title>Multiplayer</title>

<para>
The multiplayer option allows you to play with others players on the same computer. 
You can also play against an <acronym>AI</acronym> (artificial intelligence) player which is currently not
very good.
</para>

<para>
Basically when destroying lines, a player sends <quote>garbage</quote> at the
bottom of the game of his next opponent: nothing for one line destroyed, one
garbage line for two lines destroyed and so on.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="ksirtet-mainwindow">
<title>The Main &ksirtet; Window</title>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Starts a new game.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Pauses or resumes the game</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Highscores</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens</action> a dialog that displays different high score tables.
Clicking on the links below the tables downloads world-wide high scores.
<guibutton>Export</guibutton> the high scores into a file or click on 
<guibutton>Configure</guibutton> to open a dialog to customize your Nickname and add a Comment.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quits</action> &ksirtet;</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom In</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Enlarges the game board
</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom Out</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reduces the game board size
</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Mode</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Mode</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Single Human (Normal)</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sets the multiplayer mode to single
player normal</action>. See <xref linkend="game-types"/>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Mode</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Single Human (Arcade)</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sets the multiplayer mode to single
player arcade</action>. See <xref linkend="game-types"/>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 


<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Mode</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Human vs Human</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sets the multiplayer mode to two player with two human
players.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Mode</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Human vs Computer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sets the multiplayer mode to two player with one human
and one computer player.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Mode</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>More...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays the multiplayer
options dialog.</action></para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Menubar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Shows or hides the Menubar.</action>To return the
menubar, right-click anywhere on the gameboard and select <guimenuitem>Show
Menubar</guimenuitem>. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays a standard &kde; key bindings
configuration dialog to change the keyboard shortcuts for &ksirtet;.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Notifications...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays a standard &kde; notifications
configuration dialog to change the audio and visual notifications for &ksirtet;.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Highscores...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays</action> the high score configuration dialog,
in which you can change several settings that affect how &ksirtet; treats highscores.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &ksirtet;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens</action> the &ksirtet;
configuration dialog, where you can change the options of the game.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="help">
<title>The <guimenuitem>Help</guimenuitem> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<sect1 id="developers">
<title>Developers</title>

<para><literal>Erik Eng</literal> - Wrote the generic tetris code</para>
<para>&Nicolas.Hadacek; &Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="authors">
<title>Authors</title>
<para>&Nicolas.Hadacek; &Nicolas.Hadacek.mail;</para>
<para>Robert Williams <email>rwilliams@kde.org</email> - Editor</para>
<para>Documentation updated for &kde; 3.2 by &Philip.Rodrigues;.</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</sect1>


</chapter>



</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

