<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kedit;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeutils">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kedit; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>

<author><firstname>Thad</firstname><surname>McGinnis</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>ctmcginnis@compuserve.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>lauri@kde.org</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-09-16</date>
<releaseinfo>1.3</releaseinfo>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract><para>This Handbook describes &kedit;, a simple
text editor for &kde;</para> </abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KEdit</keyword>
<keyword>text editor</keyword>
</keywordset>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Thad McGinnis</holder>
</copyright>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&kedit; is a text editor for the &kde; Desktop. It is a
small editor which can be used with &konqueror; for text and
configuration file browsing. &kedit; also serves well for creating small
plain text documents. It is not meant to be a programmers editor, in
particular it is not meant to replace any of the more powerful editors
such as &kate;, <application>XEmacs</application> or
<application>Emacs</application>. &kedit;'s functionality will
intentionally remain rather limited to ensure a reasonably fast
start.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="on-screen-fundamentals"> 
<title>Some Fundamentals</title>  

<para>&kedit; is very simple to use. Anyone that has used a text editor
should have no problems. </para>

<sect1 id="drag-and-drop">
<title>Drag and Drop</title>  

<para>&kedit; uses the &kde; Drag and Drop protocol. Files may be
dragged and dropped onto &kedit; from the Desktop, &konqueror;, or some
remote &FTP; site opened in one of &konqueror;'s windows. </para>

</sect1>  

<sect1 id="command-line-options"> 
<title>Command Line Options</title>  

<para>Though &kedit; may most often be started from the &kde; program
menu, or a desktop icon, it can also be opened at the command line
prompt of a terminal window.  There are a few useful options that are
available when doing this.</para>

<sect2 id="specify-a-file"> 
<title>Specify a File</title>  

<para>By specifying the path and name of a particular file the user can
have &kedit; open (or create) that file immediately upon startup.This
option might look something like the following:</para>

<informalexample>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput><command>kedit</command> <replaceable>/home/myhome/docs/myfile.txt</replaceable></userinput></screen>
</informalexample> 

</sect2> 

<sect2 id="editing-files-on-the-internet"> 
<title>Specify a file on the Internet</title>  

<para>The above-mentioned method could even be used to open files on the
internet (if the user has an active connection at the time.)  An example
of this might look like the following:</para>

<informalexample>
<screen><prompt>%</prompt><userinput><command>kedit</command> <replaceable>ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/Welcome.msg</replaceable></userinput></screen>
</informalexample>  

</sect2>   

<sect2> 
<title>Other Command Line Options</title>  

<para>The following command line help options are available</para>  

<variablelist> 
<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--help</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>This lists the most basic options available at the command
line.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--help-qt</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>This lists the options available for changing the way &kedit;
interacts with &Qt;.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--help-kde</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>This lists the options available for changing the way &kedit;
interacts with &kde;.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--help-all</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>This lists all of the command line options.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--author</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>Lists &kedit;'s authors in the terminal window</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry> 
<term><command>kedit</command> <option>--version</option></term> 
<listitem>
<para>Lists version information for &Qt;, &kde;, and &kedit;. Also
available through <command>kedit</command> <option>-V</option></para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry> 
</variablelist> 

</sect2> 

</sect1> 

<sect1 id="keybindings">
<title>Key Bindings</title>

<para>Many of the key bindings (shortcuts) are configurable by way of
the <link linkend="settings">Settings</link> menu.  By default &kedit;
honors the following key bindings.</para> 

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Key Binding</entry>
<entry>Action</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<!--  Insert mode appears to have disappeared again
<row>
<entry><keycap>Insert</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Toggle between Insert and Overwrite mode.</action></entry>
</row>
-->
<row>
<entry><keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one character leftwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one character rightwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one line upwards</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one line downwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Page Up</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one page upwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Page Down</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one page downwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Backspace</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Delete the character to the left of the cursor.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Home</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor to the beginning of the line.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>End</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor to the end of the line.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycap>Delete</keycap></entry>
<entry><action>Delete the character to the right of the cursor.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Left
Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Mark text one character leftwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Right
Arrow</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Mark text one character rightwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Select all the text in the document.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one character leftwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Copy the marked text to the clipboard.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Delete the character to the right of the
cursor.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor to the end of the line.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Search for text in the document.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Go to line.</action></entry>
</row>


<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Delete the character to the left of the
cursor.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>K</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Create a new document</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Move the cursor one line downwards.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Print.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Paste the clipboard text into the document at the text
cursor position.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Cut the marked text, copying it to the
clipboard.</action></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Y</keycap></keycombo></entry>
<entry><action>Yank (paste) the content of the kill-buffer (clipboard)
into the document, at the current cursor position.</action></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="the-menu-entries">
<title>The Menu Entries</title>

<sect1 id="file">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="new"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This starts a new Document in a new instance of the
editor.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="open"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term> 
<listitem>
<para><action>This command opens a file.</action> It does this by means
of a dialog box which allows the user to navigate the file
system.</para>

<para>The dialog operates like a small file manager. Clicking on
folders displayed in the central window directs the dialog to enter
that folder - displaying its contents.  There is an entry/drop down
box which can be used to directly type in the location and name of the
file or by clicking the arrow at the side choose from a drop down list of
recently used locations.</para>

<para> Below this is a filter which similarly may have data entered
directly or chosen from a drop down list of recent filter types.  The
filter facility lets only files that meet its specifications be
displayed in the central window. If the filter contained text such as
<literal role="extension">*.txt</literal> then only files with the txt
extension would be visible in the selection window.</para>

<para>The toolbar has left and right arrow buttons that let the user
move back and forth through previously selected folders as well as
an up arrow button for moving up the folder tree. The button with the
little house takes the user to his or her home folder, and the one
with the two arrows curved in on each other updates the view of the
current folder. The flag button lets the user set a new bookmark at
the current folder or go to one that was previously set. The icon of
the folder with the sparkle on it, allows you to create a new
folder. Finally there is drop down box on the toolbar with a list of
some commonly frequented folders.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="open-recent"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open
Recent</guimenuitem></menuchoice> 
</term>

<listitem>
<para><action>This is a shortcut to open recently saved
documents.</action> Clicking on this item opens a list to the side of
the menu with a list of several of the most recently saved
files. Clicking on a specific file will open it in &kedit; - if the file
still resides at the same location.  </para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry> 
<term><anchor id="save"/><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This saves the current document.</action> If there has
already been a save of the document then this will overwrite the
previously saved file without asking for the user's consent.</para>

<note>
<para>The editor can be configured to make a <link
linkend="backuppref">backup</link>.</para>
</note>

<para>If it is the first save of a new document the save as dialog
(described below) will be invoked.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="save-as"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save
As...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This allows a document to be saved with a new file
name.</action> This is done by means of the file dialog box described
above in the <link linkend="open">Open</link> section of this help
file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="print"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut> 
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term> 
<listitem>
<para><action>This opens a simple print dialog allowing the user to
specify what, where, and how to print.</action> The user can choose
between the standard <command>lpr</command> or a custom command as well
as whether to print the whole document or a selected section.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="mail"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Mail...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This is used to email the current document.</action> It
calls a mail dialog whereby the user can enter the address and subject
for the message.</para>

<para>You may set your preferred mail client in &kcontrol;</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="close"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap> </keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This will close the editor window</action>, if you have
more than one instance of &kedit; running, those instances will not be
closed.</para> 
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="quit"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This closes the editor.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="undo"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This is used to eliminate or reverse the most recent user
action or operation.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="redo"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This will reverse the most recent change</action> (if any)
made using <guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="cut"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This command deletes the current selection and places it
on the clipboard.</action> The clipboard is a feature of &kde; that
works invisibly to provide a way to transfer data between
applications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="copy"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This copies the currently selected text to the clipboard
so that it may be pasted elsewhere.</action> The clipboard is a feature
of &kde; that works invisibly to provide a way to transfer data between
applications.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="paste"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This will insert the contents of the clipboard at the
cursor position.</action> The clipboard is feature of &kde; that works
invisibly to provide a way to transfer data between applications.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="select-all"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
	  action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Select
All</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This will select the entire document.</action> This could
be very useful for copying the entire file to another
application.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="find"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Find...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This opens the find dialog</action> which is used to
specify the text to <guilabel>Find</guilabel> in the document. There is
small text box for entering the search pattern. Two other options are
included to make the search more efficient. Selecting <guilabel>Case
sensitive</guilabel> will limit finds to entries that match the case
(upper or lower) of each of the characters in the search
pattern. <guilabel>Find backwards</guilabel> directs the search to
proceed in an upwardly direction.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="find-again"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Find
Next</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This repeats the last find operation, if any, without
calling the find dialog box.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="replace"/><menuchoice> <shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Replace...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This command opens the replace dialog box.</action> The
replace dialog is similar to the above-mentioned find dialog but with
the addition of a <guilabel>Replace with:</guilabel> text box.  Using
this dialog the user can specify both the text to be found and text with
which to replace it. This dialog also contains two additional buttons.
The <guilabel>Replace</guilabel> button allows the user to make one
replacement at a time which is useful when not all instances of the
searched for text should be replaced.  The <guilabel>Replace
All</guilabel> button should be used with caution as it will immediately
replace every instance of the specified text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="insertfile"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Insert
File...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This opens the <guimenu>File</guimenu><link
linkend="open"><guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem></link> dialog box whereby
the user can <action>insert a complete file in the open
document.</action> The file will be entered at the position of the
blinking text cursor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="insertdate"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Insert
Date</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This will enter the current date at the position of the
blinking text cursor.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="cleanspaces"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Clean
Spaces</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choosing this item will remove from any <emphasis>selected
text</emphasis> any extra spaces and all carriage returns (the code for
the end of a paragraph brought about by pressing the
<keycap>Enter</keycap> key.)<action> In other words, any occurrences of
two or more spaces will be reduced to one space; and all paragraphs and
blank lines will be reduced to one single
paragraph.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="Go">
<title>The <guimenu>Go</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="go-to-line"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">
&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Go</guimenu><guimenuitem>Go to
Line...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This opens the goto line dialog box which is used to have
the cursor jump to a particular line (specified by number) in the
document.</action> The line number may be entered directly into the text
box or graphically by clicking on the up or down arrow spin controls at
the side of the text box. The little up arrow will increase the line
number and the down arrow decrease it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tools">
<title>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="Spelling..."/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This initiates the spell checking program - a program
designed to help the user catch and correct any spelling
errors.</action> Clicking on this entry will start the checker and bring
up the speller dialog box through which the user can control the
process.  There are three text boxes lined up vertically just to the
left of center with their corresponding labels further to the left.
Starting at the top they are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Misspelled word:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here, the spell checker indicates the word currently under
consideration.  This happens when the checker encounters a word not in
its dictionary - a file containing a list of correctly spelled words
against which it compares each word in the editor.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Replacement:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para> If the checker has any similar words in its dictionary the first
one will be listed here.  The user can accept the suggestion, type in
his or her own correction, or choose a different suggestion from the
next box.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Suggestions:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The checker may list here a number of possible replacements for
the word under consideration.  Clicking on any one of the suggestions
will cause that word to be entered in the
<guilabel>Replacement:</guilabel> box, above.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>On dialog box are 8 buttons that allow the user to control the
spell check process.  They are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Replace</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This button has the checker replace the word under consideration
in the document with the word in the <guilabel>Replacement:</guilabel>
box.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Replace All</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This button causes the checker to replace not only the current
<guilabel>Misspelled Word:</guilabel> but to automatically make the same
substitution for any other occurrences of this <guilabel>Misspelled
Word:</guilabel> in the document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Ignore</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>Activating this button will have the checker move on without
making any changes.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Ignore All</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This button tells the checker to do nothing with the current
<guilabel>Misspelled Word:</guilabel> and to pass over any other
instances of the same word.</para>

<note>
<para>This only applies to the current spell check run.  If the checker
is run again later it will stop on this same word.</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Add</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>Pressing this button adds the word in the <guilabel>Misspelled
Word:</guilabel> box to the checker's dictionary. This means that in the
future the checker will always consider this word to be correctly
spelled.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Help</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This invokes the &kde; help system starting at the &kedit; help
pages (this document).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Stop</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This button stops the spell check process.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Cancel</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>This button cancels the spell check process.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Located horizontally along the bottom of the spell check dialog is
a progress bar.  As the checking process proceeds the bar will fill from
left to right providing a graphical representation of how far along in
the document the process has reached.</para>

<note>
<para>A numerical display of the spell check process is simultaneously
displayed in the status bar of the editor.  The <link
linkend="show-statusbar">status bar</link> is the horizontal strip at
the bottom of the editor just outside of the text entry area.</para>
</note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="show-toolbar"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show
Toolbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>When checked, this displays a movable toolbar containing
buttons used to initiate frequently used commands. The toolbar is most
commonly located at the top of the editor just under the menu.  When
unchecked the toolbar is hidden.</action> Clicking on the striated grip
will hide or unhide the bar. Clicking and dragging on this grip allows
the user to move the bar.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="show-statusbar"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show
Statusbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>When checked, this displays a small bar at the bottom of
the editor containing information about the status of the current
document. When unchecked the status bar is hidden.</action> </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="save-options"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save
Settings</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>This saves the current editor settings to be used for
future documents.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="configure-keybindings"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This command opens a dialog box whereby the <link
linkend="keybindings">key bindings</link> may be changed. A display
window at the top of the dialog box shows the list of commands
available. Below the display are three radio buttons.  The user may
choose a modifier key from <guilabel>None</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Default</guilabel>, and <guilabel>Custom</guilabel>.</para>

<note>
<para>Note that a set of radio buttons only allows the selection of one
of the offered items - in the way that buttons on a car radio only offer
the selection of one preset station.  Also, the Default Key selection is
only available for those commands that actually have a
<quote>default</quote> shortcut.)</para>
</note>

<para>
Selecting the Custom key option activates the three check boxes and key
button at the bottom of the dialog. The user may then select a
combination of keys for the command in question by means of the check
boxes and key button. For example, with the About &kde; command selected
in the display window, the user could select &Ctrl; and &Alt;, click on
the key button, and then press the <keycap>K</keycap> key on the
keyboard.  This would mean that anytime he or she held down the &Ctrl;
and &Alt; buttons and pressed <keycap>K</keycap> (while using &kedit;)
the About &kde; display box would be called. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>

<term><anchor id="configure-toolbars"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Toolbars...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>

<listitem>
<para><action>This will open the dialog whereby the toolbar
configuration may be changed.</action> The user can choose which
shortcut buttons should appear on the toolbar, as well as whether and
where any text should appear with the buttons. Other choices include
button (icon) size and toolbar location (top, left, right, floating, or
flat.)  Flat causes the toolbar to be retracted. A click on the striated
grip icon will extend it for use and another click retract it again.  A
display window on the left lists the commands available to be placed on
the toolbar.  A display on the right lists those commands already on the
toolbar.  A set of four arrow buttons between the two displays
manipulates the selections.  The right pointing arrow places any command
selected in the left pane onto the right pane, &ie;, it is added to the
toolbar.  The left arrow does just the opposite, removing any action
selected in the right window from the toolbar.  The up and down pointing
arrows change the position of an action selected in the right window
which changes the position of its button in the toolbar.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="preferences"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure KEdit...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This menu item opens a dialog whereby several different <link
linkend="pref-dialog">settings</link> may be adjusted.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help">
<title>The <guimenuitem>Help</guimenuitem> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="pref-dialog">
<title>The Preferences Dialog</title>

<para>Selecting
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
KEdit</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from the menu brings up the preferences
dialog box.  This dialog can be used to alter a number of different
settings.  The settings available for change vary according to which
category the user chooses from a vertical list on the left side of the
dialog.  By means of a row of five buttons along the bottom of the box
the user can control the process.  She or he may invoke the
<guilabel>Help</guilabel> system, set the options to their
<guilabel>Default</guilabel> values, accept the current settings and
close the dialog by means of the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> button,
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> the current choices to the document without
closing the dialog, or <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> the process. The
categories <guilabel>Font</guilabel>, <guilabel>Color</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Spelling</guilabel>, and <guilabel>Miscellaneous</guilabel>
are detailed below.</para>

<sect1 id="preffont">
<title>Font</title>

<para>The preferences dialog opens with this, the first category,
chosen.  Here the user can change four settings and see the effects of
any changes in the text sample displayed in the rectangle at the bottom
or the box.  The settings are:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Font:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This scroll box allows the user to select by name from among the
various fonts available.  The appearance of any selected font may be
seen in the sample text displayed in the rectangle at the bottom of the
dialog.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Font style:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This, the center, selection box is used to choose between the four
basic styles of Regular, Italic, Bold, and Bold Italic.  The appearance
of the selected style may be seen in the sample text displayed in the
rectangle at the bottom of the dialog. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Size:</guilabel></term>
<listitem> 
<para>This, the rightmost scroll/selection box allows the user to change
font size.  The larger the number chosen the larger the font size will
be.  The sample text displayed in the rectangle at the bottom of the
dialog will reflect the choice of size.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="prefcolors">
<title>Color</title>

<para>This section provides access to <link
linkend="pref-color-settings">two different color settings</link>,
described below.  Each of these settings may be changed by clicking on
its corresponding button.  These are special wide buttons that are the
color of the current setting.  Clicking on one of the buttons calls a
special color dialog box used to change the setting.</para>

<para>The color dialog box provides a convenient and graphical way to
select a color.  In the upper left of the box is a rectangular display
of a spectrum of colors. To the immediate right of this, is a vertical
bar displaying a range of intensity from the most dark at the bottom to
the most light at the top.  The user may select and adjust a color by
clicking in these two boxes. Clicking in the rectangular display selects
a particular mix of red, green, and blue colors and in the vertical bar
selects a level of intensity (value).  The various color attributes are
displayed in numerical form in small text boxes located directly below
the spectral rectangle and the user can see them change as the color is
adjusted.  These attributes include the mix of the basic color
components (red, green, and blue) as well as hue and saturation levels.
Alternatively the user can enter figures directly in these boxes.  There
is also a square at the bottom center of the dialog box which displays
the color which is under consideration at any time.  To the right of
this display is another text box labeled <guilabel>HTML</guilabel>: This
shows the user the color code that would be used to specify the
particular displayed color in <acronym>HTML</acronym> code which is
widely used for web pages.</para>

<para>In addition to the above, the color dialog allows the capture of
any color currently displayed on the desktop or in another program.
Clicking on the button with the dropper icon (located on the right side
of the dialog box) changes the shape of the mouse cursor to a set of
cross hairs.  Clicking again will pick up the color attributes of
whatever color is displayed under the cross hairs.</para>

<para>Furthermore the user has the option of adding any color to a
personal palette of <guilabel>Use custom colors</guilabel> by clicking on
the wide button labeled <guibutton>Add to Custom Colors</guibutton>
(which is located above the display square.)  This adds the current
color to the custom color palette.  This palette and any other available
palettes can be displayed using the drop down selection box located
directly above the palette display at the top right of the dialog box.
Besides the custom colors, the user can access a number of pre-prepared
palettes.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use custom colors</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>By default &kedit; will use your system color scheme.  If this
is enabled, you may choose a Foreground and background color below.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="pref-color-settings">
<term><guilabel>Foreground color:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here the user can specify a color for the text used in
&kedit;.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Background color:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Here the user can specify a color for the general background of
&kedit;.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="prefspellchecker">
<title>Spelling</title> 

<para>A spell checker is a program designed to help the user catch and
correct any spelling errors.  This section of the preferences dialog
allows certain key settings to be adjusted in this regard.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Create root/affix combinations not in
dictionary</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Selecting this option allows the spell checker to register as
<quote>correct</quote> combinations of root words with suffixes or
prefixes even if the particular combination is not listed in its
dictionary database of words. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Consider run-together words as spelling
errors</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Selecting this will cause the spell checker to register as
<quote>misspelled</quote> two or more correctly spelled words that are
<quote>run-together</quote>, &ie;, that do not have spaces separating
them.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Dictionary:</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>Depending on the user's installation, one or more different
language spelling dictionaries may be available.  This drop down box
allows the user to choose which language the spell checker should
use.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Encoding:</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>There are different coding systems used to associate particular
codes with particular characters and symbols.  If the user knows which
code he or she is using this drop down box allows this code to be
specified so that the spell checker can do its job correctly. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Client:</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>Since &kedit; does not contain its own spell checker, an external
one must be chosen. This is where the user may specify which spell check
program to use.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="prefmisc">
<title>Miscellaneous</title>

<para>This category deals with three different properties detailed
below.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Word wrap:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Word wrap is a feature that causes the editor to automatically
start a new line of text and move (wrap) the cursor to the beginning of
that new line.  The drop down box at the top of the dialog provides the
following three word wrap choices:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Disable Wrapping</term>
<listitem>
<para>Choosing this will keep the editor from doing any wrapping.  The
user will have to start new lines manually (with the
<keycap>Enter</keycap> key.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Soft wrapping</term>
<listitem>
<para>This choice has the editor automatically adjust the line lengths
to fit its current width.  In other words, the wider the user makes the
editor the longer the lines will be; and the narrower the editor, the
shorter the lines will be.  These line breaks are not saved in the file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>At specified column</term>
<listitem>
<para>Choosing this activates a text box immediately below, labeled
<guilabel>Wrap column:</guilabel>.  Here the user may specify the
maximum number of characters in a line of text.
</para>  

<note>
<para>Each character including spaces fills one column.</para>
</note>
</listitem>

</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="backuppref"><guilabel>Make backup when saving a
file</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This check box tells the editor to rename the last saved version of
the current document before carrying out a <command>save</command>
command.  The editor does this by adding a tilde (<keycap>~</keycap>) at
the end of the name of the original file.  In this way the user has a
chance to recover a document if she or he had mistakenly saved something
over it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>&kedit; Copyright 2000 by Bernd Johannes Wuebben
<email>wuebben@math.cornell.edu</email></para>

<para>Documentation Copyright 2000 by Thad McGinnis
<email>ctmcginnis@compuserve.com</email>.</para>

<para>This version of the &kedit; Handbook is based on the original by:
Bernd Johannes Wuebben <email>wuebben@math.cornell.edu</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>  

&install.intro.documentation;
&install.compile.documentation;

</appendix>

</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

// vim:ts=2:sw=2:tw=78:noet
-->
