<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>



<authorgroup>
<author>
&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-02-12</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Battery</keyword>
<keyword>level</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="battery-monitor">

<title>The Battery Monitor Panel</title>

<!-- <note><para>The laptop modules require the correct installation of the
apm modules.  For more information see the section entitled <link
linkend="laptop">Laptop Information</link>.</para></note> -->

<sect2 id="batmon-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This panel controls whether or not a battery state icon appears
in &kde;'s panel.</para>

<para>Once enabled a battery will appear in your docking bar as one of
3 icons - a <guiicon>battery with a red X</guiicon> through it
indicates that <acronym>APM</acronym> has not been installed (in
particular <filename>/proc/apm</filename> can't be read).</para>

<para>The other two icons indicate the battery state - a
<guiicon>small plug with a bar</guiicon> beside it indicates your
batteries are charging - the height of the blue portion of the bar
indicate how full your batteries are.  A small
<guiicon>battery</guiicon> in the dock indicates you are running on
batteries, the amount of blue in the battery indicates how full your
batteries are.</para>

<para>If you <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> click on the docked icon a
pop-up will tell you how much time you have left in minutes.</para>

<para>If you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click you get a pop-up
that lets you put your laptop into suspend or standby modes - or to
bring up the laptop configuration widget.</para>

<para>All features of Battery are configured from the Setup dialog.</para>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="batmon-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>The configuration window can be divided into 3 parts.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show Battery Monitor</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This controls whether or not the battery icon appears.  This is
disabled by default.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Poll</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This setting controls how often, in seconds, the battery is
updated. </para>
<para>The default is 20 seconds.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Icons</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The battery monitor uses three icons to represent the three
states: No APM, Charging, and Not Charging. The icons shown are the <quote>large</quote>
icons. To select new ones, click on the buttons and a icon loader dialog will
pop up. </para>
<note><para>If you create your own icons - they will work with the battery
monitor - but be careful.</para>
<para>All the exactly white pixels in the icon get filled by blue for the
battery meter - if you want some white looking pixels to stay choose a slightly
off-white or gray color for them.</para></note>
<para>The author does not claim to be a graphic artist and would love for
someone to donate some better looking icons to the cause.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="batmon-author">
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>This section written by &Paul.Campbell; &Paul.Campbell.mail;</para>
<para>Converted to Docbook by &Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
