<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&ark;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeutils">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &ark; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
&Matt.Johnston; &Matt.Johnston.mail;
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Matt Johnston</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2004</year>
<holder>Henrique Pinto</holder>
</copyright>


<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2004-06-19</date>
<releaseinfo>2.3.1</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&ark; is an archive manager for &kde;.</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>gzip</keyword>
<keyword>gunzip</keyword>
<keyword>tar</keyword>
<keyword>archive</keyword>
<keyword>zip</keyword>
<keyword>compression</keyword>
<keyword>lha</keyword>
<keyword>kdeutils</keyword>
<keyword>ark</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&ark; is a program for managing various archive formats within the
&kde; environment. Archives can be viewed, extracted, created and
modified from within &ark;. The program can handle various formats such
as <command>tar</command>, <command>gzip</command>,
<command>bzip2</command>, <command>zip</command>, <command>rar</command> and
<command>lha</command> (if appropriate command-line programs are
installed). &ark; can work closely with &konqueror; in the &kde;
environment to handle archives, if you install the &konqueror; Integration plugin available in the kdeaddons package.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="using-ark">
<title>Using &ark;</title>

<sect1 id="ark-open">
<title>Opening Archives</title>

<para>To open an archive in &ark;, choose
<guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu>
menu. You can also open archive files by dragging and dropping from
&konqueror;. Archive files should be associated with &ark;, so you can
also <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click a file in &konqueror; and
select <guimenuitem>&ark;</guimenuitem> to open it.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ark-work-files">
<title>Working with Files</title>

<para>Once an archive has been opened, you can perform various
operations on the files inside the archive.  By
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking on a file within the
archive, or selecting a file and using the <guimenu>Action</guimenu>
menu, you can choose what you want to do:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Extract</guimenuitem> will extract the file to a location you
specify on disk.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Delete</guimenuitem> will remove the currently
selected file(s) from the archive.</para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>View</guimenuitem> will open the file in the integrated viewer, or in the default
viewer program in case the integrated viewer cannot view the file, or you have disabled it in the Configuration Window.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Open With...</guimenuitem> allows you to open the
file in a program you choose.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Edit With...</guimenuitem> will open the file a
program you choose. The difference between this and <guimenuitem>Open
With...</guimenuitem> is that any changes you make will be saved to the
file in the archive.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ark-extract">
<title>Extracting Archives</title>

<para>Once an archive has been opened in &ark;, it can be extracted. To
extract files from an archive, you can either select
<guimenuitem>Extract...</guimenuitem> from the
<guimenu>Action</guimenu> menu or <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the file. The <guilabel>Extract</guilabel>
dialog allows you to select where you will extract files to. You can
also select which files to extract:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Current</guimenuitem> extracts the most recently
selected file. If multiple files are selected, only the most recently
selected one will be extracted.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>All</guimenuitem> extracts the entire contents of the
archive.</para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Selected Files</guimenuitem> extracts all the files
which have been selected.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guimenuitem>Pattern</guimenuitem> allows you to specify which
files will be extracted, corresponding to certain patterns, &eg;
<literal role="extension">*.txt</literal> or <literal
role="extension">*.jpg</literal>.  Note that you can only use one
pattern at a time.</para> 
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>You can specify the folder to extract files to in the
<guilabel>Extract to:</guilabel> text box.  The default location is the
folder the archive is in.  You may also choose to have the folder that you
extract into open in &konqueror; once the extraction is complete.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ark-create">
<title>Creating Archives and Adding Files</title>

<para>To create a new archive in &ark;, choose
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu>
menu.</para>

<para>You can then type the name of the archive, with the appropriate
extension (<literal role="extension">tar.gz</literal>, <literal
role="extension">zip</literal>, <literal role="extension">bz2</literal>
&etc;). To add files to the archive, choose <guimenuitem>Add
File...</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>Action</guimenu> menu. If you
want to add an entire folder to an archive, choose <guimenuitem>Add
Folder...</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>Action</guimenu> menu.</para>

<para>An alternative way to add files to the archive is to drag a file
from &konqueror; or the desktop into the main &ark; window, and it will
be added to the current archive.</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="configuration">
<title>Configuring &ark;</title>

<sect1 id="generalsettings">
<title>General Settings</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use integrated viewer</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use the integrated viewer to view files, if possible.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enable Konqueror integration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Enable the plugin for extracting or adding files to archives through Konqueror context menus.</para>
<para>This option only works if the Konqueror integration plugin from kdeaddons is installed on your system.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="addition">
<title>File Addition Settings</title>

<para>Many of these options are only configurable for specific archive
formats.  Other formats may behave either way and are not
configurable.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Replace old files only with newer
files</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you add filenames that already exist in an archive, only
replace them if the added files are newer than the ones already
present in the archive.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<!-- TODO: Entry seems to have disappearead, confirm that it's not just 
hidden because I don't have lha installed
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Keep entries generic (Lha)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para> FIXME: Find out what this is</para>
<para>Affects only Lha archives</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
 -->
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Force MS-DOS short filenames (Zip)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Force names to the DOS 8.3 format.</para>
<para>Affects only zip files</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Translate LF to DOS CRLF (Zip)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Convert the line endings in text files to DOS format from UNIX
format.</para>
<para>Affects only zip files</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Store symlinks as links (Zip, Rar)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Save links inside the archive, instead of following them and
including the files being linked to.</para>
<para>Affects zip and rar archives.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Recursively add subfolders (Zip,
Rar)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you add a folder to an archive, also add any
subfolders inside.  Affects zip and rar archives</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="extraction">
<title>Extraction Settings</title>

<para>Many of these options are only configurable for specific archive
formats.  Other formats may behave either way and are not
configurable.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Overwrite files (Zip, Tar, Zoo, Rar)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Overwrite any files that have matching names on disk with the
one from the archive.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Preserve permissions (Tar)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Save the user, group, and permission settings on files.  Use
with care, as this may result in files being extracted that do not
belong to any valid user on your computer.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Ignore folder names (Zip)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Extract all the files into the extraction folder, ignoring
any folder structure in the archive.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Convert filenames to lowercase (Zip, Rar)</guilabel></term>
<term><guilabel>Convert filenames to uppercase (Rar)</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Extract all files with all lowercase (or uppercase) names.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="folders">
<title>Folders</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This shows the <guilabel>Folders</guilabel> dialog box, so you
	can <action>choose the default folders</action>. You can configure a <guilabel>Common folder</guilabel> that will be used for all options, use the last used folder, or a custom folder.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="filemenu">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice> <shortcut> <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo> </shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Creates a new archive</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice> <shortcut> <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo> </shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem> </menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Opens an archive</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
        
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Open Recent</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Shows a list of recent archives to choose
from</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Opens a new &ark; window</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>F5</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Loads the current archive again from disk. This will
refresh &ark;'s view if another program has made changes to the
archive.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Allows you to save the current archive under a new file
name</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap>
</keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Closes the current archive</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Closes &ark;</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>
<sect1 id="editmenu">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Lets you select files according to their
filename</action>. For example, you could use <literal
role="extension">*.txt</literal> to select all text files. Note that you
can't use more than one filter at a time.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Selects all the files in the archive</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Unselects all the files in the archive</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Invert Selection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Reverses which files are selected. Selected files become
unselected, and unselected files are selected.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>View Shell Output</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the <guilabel>Shell Output</guilabel> box, which
<action>shows you the output of the most recent command(s)</action> run
by &ark;. This is sometimes useful if you are having problems and want
to troubleshoot.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="actionmenu">
<title>The <guimenu>Action</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Add File...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Shows the <guilabel>Select Files to Add</guilabel> dialog box,
where you can select files. Hold down &Ctrl; and click to select
multiple files.  To go up a folder,
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click the folder box, and you can
choose <guimenuitem>Up</guimenuitem> (this will probably be improved
soon). The <guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab has options which are
specific to the type or archive you are working with.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Add Folder...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Shows the <guilabel>Add Folder...</guilabel> dialog box, where you
can choose a <action>folder to add</action>. Just choose a folder
and choose <guibutton>Open</guibutton>.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Delete</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Removes the currently selected files from the
archive.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Extract</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Shows the <guilabel>Extract</guilabel> dialog box, which allows
you to <action>select where you will extract files</action> to. You can
also select which files to extract:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><guilabel>Current</guilabel> extracts the most recently selected
file. If multiple files are selected, only the most recently selected
one will be extracted.</para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para><guilabel>All</guilabel> extracts the entire contents of the
archive.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><guilabel>Selected Files</guilabel> extracts all the files which
have been selected.</para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para><guilabel>Pattern</guilabel> allows you to specify which files
will be extracted, corresponding to certain patterns, &eg;
<literal role="extension">*.txt</literal> or <literal
role="extension">*.jpg</literal>   Note that you can only use one
pattern at a time.</para>
</listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<para>You can specify the folder to extract files to in the
<guilabel>Extract to:</guilabel> text box. The default location is the
folder the archive is in.  You may also choose to have the folder that you
extract into open in &konqueror; once the extraction is complete.</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Opens the currently selected file in the associated viewer
program.</action></para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open With...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Opens the currently selected file in a program you
choose.</action> The <guilabel>Open With...</guilabel> dialog box lets
you choose which program to use. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Action</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit With...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Opens the currently selected file in a program you
choose.</action> Any changes you make in the editor program will be
reflected in the archive, as it will be updated. </para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settingsmenu">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggles whether the toolbar is displayed. </action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggles whether the status bar is
displayed. </action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Search Bar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggles whether the search bar is
displayed. </action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays the <guilabel>Configure Shortcuts</guilabel> dialog
box. This <action>lets you choose shortcut keys for various menu
items.</action> To change a shortcut, select an action from the list,
and then choose which keystroke to use. Clicking on the bottom right
hand <interface>Key</interface> button lets you choose which specific
key to use. Just press the new key. </para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Displays a &kde; standard dialog where you can configure the
toolbar icons.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Ark...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This opens the &ark; configuration dialog.  The dialog contains four
modules (General, Addition, Extraction and Folders).  Configuring &ark; is covered in the section <link
linkend="configuration">Configuration</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&ark; is Copyright &copy; 1997-2004, The Various &ark; Developers</para>

<itemizedlist>
<title>Authors:</title>
<listitem><para>Helio Chissini de Castro
<email>helio@conectiva.com.br</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Georg Robbers
<email>Georg.Robbers@urz.uni-hd.de</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Henrique Pinto
<email>henrique.pinto@kdemail.net</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Roberto Selbach Teixeira
<email>maragato@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Robert Palmbos
<email>palm9744@kettering.edu</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Francois-Xavier Duranceau
<email>duranceau@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Corel Corporation (author: Emily Ezust)
<email>emilye@corel.com</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation Copyright &copy; 2000 Matt Johnston
<email>mattj@flashmail.com</email></para>

<para>Documentation updated for &kde; 3.3 by Henrique Pinto
<email>henrique.pinto@kdemail.net</email>.</para>

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-ark">
<title>How to obtain &ark;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to successfully use &ark;, you need &kde;
3.3. <acronym>GNU</acronym> <command>Tar</command> v1.12 and a recent
<command>gzip</command> are also needed if you want &ark; to handle tar archives. To handle other
file formats, you need the appropriate command line programs, such as
<command>zip</command>, <command>unzip</command>, <command>ar</command>, <command>rar</command>
and <command>lha</command>.  </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index; 
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

