<chapter id="menu-entries">
<chapterinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author><personname><firstname></firstname></personname></author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Menu Entries</title>

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>starts a new document</action> in the editing
window.  In the <guibutton>Documents</guibutton> list on the left the new file
is named <emphasis>Untitled</emphasis>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launches &kde;'s open file dialog box to let you open one or more files.
</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-recent"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Recent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command allows you to <action>open a file</action> from a submenu
that contains a list of recently edited files.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-with"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open With</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This submenu presents a list of applications known to handle the mime type
of your current document. Activating an entry will open the current document
with that application.</para>
<para>In addition, a entry <guimenuitem>Other...</guimenuitem> command launches
the open with dialog box that allows you to <action>select another application
to open the active file</action>. Your file will still be open in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves your file</action>. Use it often. If the file is
<emphasis>Untitled</emphasis> then
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> becomes
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-as"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Name and rename files</action> with this command.
It launches the save file dialog box. This dialog works just as
the open file dialog box does. You can use it to navigate through
your file system, preview existing files, or filter your file
view with file masks.
</para>

<para>
Type the name you want to give the file you are saving in the
Location combo box and press the
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> button.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves all modified open files</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="reload"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F5</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Reloads the active file</action>.  This command is
useful if another program or process has changed the file while you have
it open in &kate;
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="print"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Print the active file</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="export-as-html">
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Export as HTML...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Export your file in HTML format so your document can be viewed as a
web page.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term id="mail">
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mail...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Open your mail client and attach the file in the mail.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Close the active file</action> with this command. If you
have made unsaved changes, you will be prompted to save
the file before &kate; closes it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes all the files you have open</action>
in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="quit"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes &kate;</action> and any files you were
editing. If you have made unsaved changes to any of the files you were
editing, you will be prompted to save them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu contains a host of commands,
all to work with the currently active document.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Entries</title>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-undo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Undo the last editing command (typing, copying, cutting etc.)</para>
<note><para>If grouped undo is enabled, this may undo several editing commands of the same type, like typing in characters.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-redo"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Redo the last undo step.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-cut"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Removes selected text if any, and places a copy of the removed text in the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-copy"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text, if any, to the clipboard.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-copy-as-html"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy as HTML</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies selected text with the syntax highlight as HTML text.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-paste" />
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Copies the first item in the clipboard into the editor at cursor position.</para>
<note><para>If Overwrite Selection is enabled, the pasted text will overwrite the selection, if any.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-select-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Selects all text in the editor.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-deselect"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Deselects the selected text in the editor if any.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-toggle-block-selection"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Shift</keycap>
<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Block Selection Mode</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles Selection Mode. When the Selection Mode is <quote>BLOCK</quote>, you can make vertical selections,
ie select column 5 to 10 in lines 9 to 15.</para>
<para>The status bar shows the current state of the Selection Mode, either <quote>NORM</quote> or <quote>BLK</quote>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the Find Dialog to allow you to search for text in the edited document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-next"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Next</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest downwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-find-previous"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find Previous</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Go to the nearest upwards match of the last text or regular expression searched for, starting from cursor position</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-replace"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replace...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the Replace Dialog to replace one or more instances of a defined text with something else.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="edit-go-to-line"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>G</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to line...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launches the Go To Line Dialog, allowing you to enter the number of a line to find in
the document</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="document-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Document</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>The Document menu provides a menu entry for each open document.
Clicking one of these will bring the requested document to focus. If you have
multiple frames, an editor for that document will be displayed in the currently
active frame.</para>
<para>In addition, commands to browse your open documents are provided:
<variablelist>
<title>Menu items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-back"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Left</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will bring the previous document in the stack in focus. If you have
multiple frames, an editor for the document will be displayed in the currently
active frame.</para> <para>The order is the order in which documents were
opened, rather than a logical history.  This behavior may change in future
versions of &kate;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="document-forward"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Right</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Document</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will bring the next document in the stack in focus. If you have
multiple frames, an editor for the document will be displayed in the currently
active frame.</para>
<para>The order is the order in which the documents were opened,
rather than a logical history.  This behavior may change in future versions of
&kate;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="view-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> menu allows you to manage settings
specific to the active editor, and to manage frames.</para>

<variablelist>
<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycap>F7</keycap></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Switch to Command Line</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This command will toggle the display of the
<link linkend="advanced-editing-tools-commandline">built in command line</link>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guisubmenu>Schema</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This menu lists the available schemas. You can change the schema
for the current view here, to change the default schema you need to
use the <link linkend="config-dialog-editor-colors">config dialog</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F10</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Dynamic Word Wrap</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Toggles dynamic word wrap in the current view. Dynamic word
wrap makes all the text in a view visible without the need for horizontal
scrolling by rendering one actual line on more visual lines as needed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show/Hide Static Word
Wrap Marker</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of a vertical line indicating the position
of the wrap width as configured in the <link
linkend="config-dialog-editor-wrap-words-at">config dialog</link>. This
feature requires that you use a true fixed-width font.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-icon-border"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F6</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Icon Border</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle item. Setting it on checked will make the Icon Border
visible in the left side of the active editor, and vice versa.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-show-line-numbers"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F11</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Line Numbers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This is a toggle Item. Setting it on checked will make a pane displaying
the line numbers of the document visible in the left border of the active editor,
and vice versa.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show/Hide Scrollbar
Marks</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the visualization of bookmarks (and other marks) on the
vertical scrollbar. When enabled, marks are represented by a thin line in the
mark color at the scrollbar, middleclicking on the lines will scroll the view
to a position near the mark.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F9</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show/Hide Folding Markers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of the folding marker pane in the left
side of the view. See <link linkend="advanced-editing-tools-code-folding">Using
Code Folding</link>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="view-code-folding"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Code Folding</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>

<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Collapse Toplevel</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Collapse all toplevel regions in the document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Expand Toplevel</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Expand all toplevel regions in the document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Collapse One Local Level</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Collapse the region closest to the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenuitem>Expand One Local Level</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Expand the region closest to the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>

</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="bookmarks-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> menu allows you to work with
the bookmarks in the currently active document.</para>

<para>Below the entries described here, one entry for each bookmark in
the active document will be available. The text will be the first few
words of the marked line. Choose an item to move the cursor to the
start of that line. The editor will scroll as necessary to make that
line visible.</para>

<variablelist>

<title>Menu Items</title>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-toggle-bookmark"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Set/Clear Bookmark</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Sets or removes a bookmark in the current line of the active document.
(If it's there, it is removed, otherwise one is set.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="bookmarks-clear-bookmarks"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clear All Bookmarks</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Clears (removes) all bookmarks in the active document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="bookmarks-previous">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>Page Up</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu><guimenuitem>Previous</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>This will move the cursor to beginning of the first above line
with a bookmark. The menuitem text will include the line number and the first
piece of text on the line. This item is only available when there is a bookmark
in a line above the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="bookmarks-next">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>Page Down</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu><guimenuitem>Next</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will move the cursor to beginning of the next line with a
bookmark. The menuitem text will include the line number and the first piece of
text on the line. This item is only available when there is a bookmark in a line
below the cursor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="tools-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Pipe to
Console</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Feed the currently selected text ito the built in terminal
emulator. No newline is added after the text.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guisubmenu>External
Tools</guisubmenu></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This submenu contains all the <link
linkend="kate-mdi-tools-externaltools">external tools</link>you have
configured.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-read-only"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Read Only Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Set the current document to Read Only mode. This prevents any text
addition and any changes in the document formatting.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-filetype"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Filletype</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the filetype scheme you prefer for the active document. This
overwrites the global <link linkend="config-dialog-editor-filetypes">filetype</link>
mode set in <menuchoice> <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure
Editor...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the Filetypes tab for your current
document only.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-highlighting"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Highlighting</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Choose the Highlighting scheme you prefer for the active document. This
overwrites the global highlighting mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-indentation"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Indentation</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose the <link linkend="kate-part-autoindent">style of
indentation</link> you want for your active document.
This overwrites the global indentation mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-encoding"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Encoding</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>You can overwrite the default encoding set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure
Editor...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the <guilabel>Open/Save</guilabel> tab
to set a different encoding for your current document. The encoding you
set here will be only valid for your current document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-end-of-line"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>End of Line</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose your prefered end of line mode for your active
document. This overwrites the global end of line mode set in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure Editor...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> for your current document only.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spelling"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Spelling...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>

<listitem><para><action>This initiates the spellchecking program - a program
designed to help the user catch and correct any spelling errors.</action>
Clicking on this entry will start the checker and bring up the speller dialog
box through which the user can control the process.  There are four settings
lined up vertically in the center of the dialog with their corresponding labels
just to the left.  Starting at the top they are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Unknown word:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Here, the spellchecker indicates the word currently under
consideration.  This happens when the checker encounters a word not in its
dictionary - a file containing a list of correctly spelled words against which
it compares each word in the editor.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Replace with:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para> If the checker has any similar words in its dictionary the
first one will be listed here.  The user can accept the suggestion, type in his
or her own correction, or choose a different suggestion from the next
box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Suggested Words:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para> The checker may list here a number of possible replacements for
the word under consideration.  Clicking on any one of the suggestions will cause
that word to be entered in the <guilabel>Replacement:</guilabel> box,
above.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Language:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para> If you have installed multiple dictionaries, here you can
select which dictionary/language should be used.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>On the right side of the dialog box are 5 buttons that allow the user to
control the spellcheck process.  They are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Add to Dictionary</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Pressing this button adds the word in the <guilabel>Misspelled
Word:</guilabel> box to the checker's dictionary. This means that in the future
the checker will always consider this word to be correctly
spelled.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Replace</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This button has the checker replace the word under
consideration in the document with the word in the
<guilabel>Replacement:</guilabel> box.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Replace All</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This button causes the checker to replace not only the current
<guilabel>Unknown word:</guilabel> but to automatically make the same
substitution for any other occurrences of this <guilabel>Misspelled
Word:</guilabel> in the document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Ignore</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Activating this button will have the checker move on without
making any changes.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Ignore All</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This button tells the checker to do nothing with the current
<guilabel>Unknown word:</guilabel> and to pass over any other instances of
the same word.</para> <note><para>This only applies to the current spellcheck
run.  If the checker is run again later it will stop on this same
word.</para></note></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Three more buttons are located horizontally along the bottom of the
spellcheck dialog.  They are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Help</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This invokes the &kde; help system starting at the &kate; help
pages (this document).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Finished</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This button ends the spellcheck process, and returns to the
document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Cancel</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para> This button cancels the spellcheck process, all modifications
are reverted, and you will return to your document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spelling-from-cursor"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spelling (from cursor)...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>This initiates the spellchecking program but it starts where your cursor
is instead of at the beginning of the document.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-spellcheck-selection"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Spellcheck Selection...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
 <listitem>
<para>Spellchecks the current selection.</para>
 </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="indent"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Indent</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>This increases the paragraph's indentation by one step. The size of the
step depends on the <link linkend="config-dialog-editor-indent">indentation
settings</link>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-unindent"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Unindent</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>

<listitem>
<para>This reduces the paragraph's indentation by one step. The size of the step

depends on the <link linkend="config-dialog-editor-indent">indentation settings</link>.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-cleanindent"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Clean
Indentation</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>  <listitem>
<para>This cleans the indentation for the current selection or for the
line the cursor is currently in. Cleaning the indentation ensures that
all your selected text follows the indentation mode you choose.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-align"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Align</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Causes a realign of the current line or selected lines using the
indentation mode and indentation settings in the doucment.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-comment"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Comment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This adds one space to the beginning of the line
where the text cursor is located or to the beginning of any
selected lines.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-uncomment"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Uncomment</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This removes one space (if any exist) from the beginning of the
line where the text cursor is located or from the beginning of any
selected lines.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-uppercase"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Uppercase</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Put the selected text or the letter after the cursor in
uppercase.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-lowercase"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Lowercase</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Put the selected text or the letter after the cursor in
lowercase.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-capitalize"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Alt;&Ctrl;<keycap>U</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Capitalize</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Capitalize the selected text or the current
word.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-join-lines"/><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Join Lines</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Joins the selected lines, or the current line and the line below
with one white space character as a separator. Leading/trailing white space on
joined lines is removed in the affected ends.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="tools-word-wrap-document"/><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Word Wrap Document</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Apply static word wrapping on all the document. That means that
a new line of text will automatically start when the current
line exceeds the length specified by the Wrap words at: option
in the Editing tab in <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
Editor...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>


</sect1>

<sect1 id="sessions-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Sessions</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>This menu contains entries for using and managing &kate; sessions.
For more information, read <link
linkend="fundamentals-using-sessions">Using Sessions</link>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry id="sessions-new">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Creates a new empty session. All currently open files will
be closed.</para></listitem>

</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-open">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Open an existing session. The Session Chooser dialog is
displayed to let you choose one.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-quick-open">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guisubmenu>Quick Open</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This submenu lets you open an existing session.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-save">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Save the current session. If the session is anonymous, you will
be prompted for a session name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-save-as">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save
As...</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Save the current session under a new name. You are prompted for
a name to use.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="sessions-manage">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Sessions</guimenu><guimenuitem>Manage...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the Session Manager dialog which allows you to rename
and delete sessions.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu allows you to change the properties
of the main window, such as showing/hiding toolbars, and provides
access to the configuration dialogs.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-toolbars"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This submenu lists the available toolbars, each item toggles the display
of the associated toolbar.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="settings-fullscreen">
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Full Screen
Mode</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles full screen display.</para>
<note><para>This commmand will be moved to the Window menu in a future
version of &kate;</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-shortcuts"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the familiar &kde; Keyboard Shortcut Configuration
Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-toolbars"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Display the familiar &kde; Toolbar Configuration Dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="settings-configure-kate"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &kate;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Launch the <link linkend="config-dialog">Main Configuration Dialog</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="window-menu">
<title>the <guimenu>Window</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-new"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Opens another instance of &kate;</action>.
The new instance will be identical to your previous instance.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-split-vertical"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>L</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Vertical</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>This will split the frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one to the left of the current one. The new frame gets the focus, and will display the
same document as the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-split-horizontal"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>T</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Split Horizontal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Splits the current frame (which may be the main editing area) in two equally sized frames,
the new one at the bottom half. The new frame gets the focus, and displays the same document as
the old one.</para>
<para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the &kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-close-current"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close Current</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Closes the active frame. This is disabled, if there is only one frame
(the main editing area).</para> <para>No documents get closed by closing a
frame &ndash; they will still be available in the <link
linkend="document-menu"><guimenu>Documents</guimenu> Menu</link> as well as in
the File List.</para> <para>See also <link linkend="kate-mdi">Working with the
&kate; MDI</link></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="window-next-view">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F8</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guimenuitem>Next
View</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Focus the next document view, if you have split the editor area
in more views.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="window-previous-view">
<term><menuchoice><shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F8</keycap>
</keycombo></shortcut><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guimenuitem>Previous
View</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Focus the previous document view, if you have split the editor
area in more views.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><anchor id="window-toolviews-show-sidebars"/>
<menuchoice><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Sidebars</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Toggles the display of the sidebar button rows. This command
does not affect the display of the sidebar content widgets, any sidebar that
is visible will stay visible, and if you assigned shortcuts to the below
commands those will of course continue to work.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-toolviews-show-filelist"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Documents</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of &kate;'s Documents list</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-toolviews-show-fileselector"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Filesystem Browser</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of &kate;'s Filesystem Browser</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-toolviews-greptool"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Find in Files</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggle the display of &kate;'s <guilabel>Find in Files</guilabel> tool.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="window-toolviews-show-konsole"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu>Window</guimenu><guisubmenu>Tool Views</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Show/Hide Terminal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>Toggles the display of the built in terminal emulator.</para>
<para>When activated the first time, the terminal will be created.</para>
<para>When the terminal emulator is displayed, it will get the focus, so that
you can start typing in commands immediately. If the <link
linkend="config-dialog-general-sync-konsole">Sync Konsole with Active
Document</link> option is enabled in the <link
linkend="config-dialog-general">General Page</link> of the <link
linkend="config-dialog">Main configuration dialog</link> the shell session will
change to the directory of the active document, if it is a local file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">

<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>Apart from standard &kde; <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu items
described below you will have menu entries to show the
Plugins User Manuals for installed plugins.</para>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>
