<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kmoon;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdetoys">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kmoon; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<personname>
<firstname>Pam</firstname>
<othername></othername>
<surname>Roberts</surname>
</personname>
<email>pamroberts@blueyonde.co.uk</email>
</author>
</authorgroup>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<copyright>
<year>2003</year>
<holder>Pam Roberts</holder>
</copyright>
<!-- Translators: put here the copyright notice of the translation -->
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2003-09-16</date>
<releaseinfo>1.0</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kmoon; is an applet that shows the current phase of the moon.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdetoys</keyword>
<keyword>kmoon</keyword>
<keyword>moon phase</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="using">
<title>Using &kmoon;</title>
<para>&kmoon; is a little applet that docks into the System Tray and shows an 
image of the current phase of the moon. Hovering the mouse cursor over the  
image brings up a tooltip to display more information.</para>

<para>&kmoon; can be added to the panel by &RMB; clicking on an empty space
on the panel and choosing <menuchoice><guimenu>Add to
Panel</guimenu><guisubmenu>Applet</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Moon Phase
Display</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  If you can't find an empty space, you
can access the panel menu from an &RMB; click on any existing applet or
icon.</para>

<para>To close &kmoon; <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the applet
handle beside the image and choose <guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>.</para>

<sect1 id="settings">
<title>Settings</title>
<para>If you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> click on the image and choose 
<guimenuitem>Settings...</guimenuitem> a small dialog box will appear that 
lets you adjust the image to suit the latitude and hemisphere you are living 
in.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kmoon;
</para>
<para>
Program copyright 1998,2000 &Stephan.Kulow; &Stephan.Kulow.mail;
</para>
<para>
Contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Lunar code by Chris Osburn <email>chris@speakeasy.org</email></para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>Moon graphics by Tom Beauchamp <email>timb@googol.com</email></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2003 Pam Roberts <email>pamroberts@blueyonder.co.uk</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;              
&underGPL;        	

</chapter>
<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<para>&kmoon; is part of &kde;'s &package; package.</para>
<para>Most &Linux; / &UNIX; distributions that include &kde; will include &package; as an option to be installed if the user wishes.</para>
<para>&kmoon; and the &package; package may also be compiled from source code. 
Visit <ulink url="http://www.kde.org"> http://www.kde.org</ulink> for instructions on how to download, compile and install &kde; programs.</para>

</appendix>

&documentation.index; 
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=2:shiftwidth=2:expandtab 
-->

