.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH AMOR 1 "October 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
amor \- a KDE creature for your desktop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amor
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBAMOR\fP (Amusing Misuse Of Resources) provides several different
characters who prance around your X screen doing tricks and
giving you tips.
.PP
Note AMOR will only work with some window managers.  Both KWin (the KDE
window manager) and Metacity (a GTK2 window manager) are supported.
.PP
This program is part of the official KDE toys module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIamor \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/amor/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/amor/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdetoys-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/amor/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
AMOR was written by Martin R. Jones <mjones@kde.org> and
Gerardo Puga <gpuga@gioia.ing.unlp.edu.ar>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
