.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KODO 1 "October 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kodo \- mouse odometer for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kodo
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKOdometer\fP measures your desktop mileage. It tracks the movement of
your mouse pointer across your desktop and renders it in
inches/feet/miles!  It can do cm/metres/km too.  Its most exciting
feature is the tripometer, and its utter uselessness.
.PP
This program is part of the official KDE toys module.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIkodo \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kodo/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kodo/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdetoys-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kodo/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KOdometer was written by Armen Nakashian <armen@tourismo.com> and
Mark H. Granoff/mhg <granoff@keptin.lkg.dec.com>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
