.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KWORLDCLOCK 1 "October 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kworldclock \- earth watcher for KDE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kworldclock
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fB\-\-dump\fP
[ \fB\-\-theme\fP \fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB\-o\fP \fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-size\fP\ \fIW\fP\fBx\fP\fIH\fP ]]
.PP
.B kworldclock \-\-themes
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKWorldClock\fP displays where in the world it is light and dark
depending on time, as well as offering the time in all of the major
cities of the world.  This can be run standalone, as an applet in the
KDE panel or as a desktop background.
.PP
This program is part of the official KDE toys module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kworldclock-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkworldclock \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fP
Write out a file containing the actual map.
.TP
\fB\-\-theme\fP \fIfile\fP
The name of the theme to use for a map dump (default: depths).
.TP
\fB\-\-themes\fP
Display a list of all available themes.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIfile\fP
The name of the file to write to for a map dump (default: dump.ppm).
.TP
\fB\-\-size\fP\ \fIW\fP\fBx\fP\fIH\fP
The size of the map to dump.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kworldclock/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kworldclock/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdetoys-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kworldclock/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KWorldClock was written by Matthias Hoelzer-Kluepfel <hoelzer@kde.org>
and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
