<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&ksnake;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &ksnake; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Michel</firstname>
<surname>Filippi</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Michel Filippi</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2005-12-17</date>
<releaseinfo>0.4.0</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
Snake Race is a game of speed and agility. You are a hungry snake and are trying
to eat all the apples in the room before getting out!
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>linux</keyword>
<keyword>race</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&ksnake; is a game of speed and agility. You are a hungry snake and are trying
to eat all the apples in the room before getting out!
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="rules-of-the-game">
<title>Rules of the Game</title>

<sect1 id="to-win">
<title>To Win</title>

<para>
To win &ksnake; you must eat all the apples in the room and leave through the
exit that opens at the top.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Each apple you eat makes you grow longer.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
If you hit a wall, you die.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
If you hit yourself, you die.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
If you are hit in the head by a bouncing ball, you die. 
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
If you take too long to eat the apples, more of them appear. 
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="scoring">
<title>Scoring</title>

<sect2>
<title>Before the timer has run out</title>


<para>
Before the timer has run out, you score:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
1 point for a red apple + a bonus depending on your skill level. 
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
5 points for a gold apple + a bonus for your skill level + 2 points for each
computer snake + 2 points for each bouncing ball.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Twice your level number when you exit the room + a bonus depending on your skill
level. 
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>After the timer has run out</title>

<para>
After the timer has run out, you score:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
1 point for a red apple.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
2 points for a gold apple. 
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Points equal to your level number when you exit the room + a bonus depending on
your skill level. 
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>When the computer snake eats an object</title>

<para>
When the computer snake eats an object you lose:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
2 points for a red apple. 
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
5 points for a gold apple. 
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Other points</title>

<para>
You score 20 points for killing a computer snake.
</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="customization">
<title>Customization</title>

<sect1 id="create-your-own-levels">
<title>Create Your Own Levels</title>

<para>
To create your own level, copy one of the levels from <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/apps/ksnake/levels</filename> to
<filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.kde/share/apps/ksnake</filename> and
edit it with a bitmap editor. You can then select it in
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Configure &ksnake;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice> in the <guilabel>First Level</guilabel> tab.
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="menu-reference">
<title>Menu Reference</title>

<sect1 id="game-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Start a new game</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>P</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Pause</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Pause the game.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Highscores...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Show the High Score dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Quits &kappname;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Shows or hides the &ksnake; status bar at the bottom of the screen.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem><para>Select this to open a dialog which lets you define shortcuts
for all menu items in &ksnake;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure &ksnake;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>Opens the &ksnake; configuration dialog to change &ksnake;
settings.</para>
<para>On the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab you can set the speed of snakes, 
choose the number of snakes and balls and their behaviour.</para>
<para>Select a background color or an image on the <guilabel>Appearance</guilabel> tab.</para>
<para>Choose a starting level from 1 to 25 on the <guilabel>First Level</guilabel> tab.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>
&ksnake; copyright 2000, Michel Filippi
</para>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2000, Michel Filippi and Robert Williams.
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
