<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY package "kdebase">
<!ENTITY liloconfig "LILO Configuration">
<!ENTITY lilo "LILO">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->

<!ENTITY Virgil.J.Nisly "<personname><firstname>Virgil</firstname><othername>J.</othername><surname>Nisly</surname></personname>">
<!ENTITY Virgil.J.Nisly.mail "<email>virgil@vigilite.com</email>">
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>The &liloconfig; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>&Virgil.J.Nisly; &Virgil.J.Nisly.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2005</year>
<holder>&Virgil.J.Nisly;</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;&underFDL;&GPLNotice;&underGPL;</legalnotice>

<date>2005-01-18</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>
<abstract><para>&liloconfig; is an application specificly designed to configure &lilo; the boot manager.</para></abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>lilo</keyword>
<keyword>boot configuration</keyword>
<keyword>booting</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="login-manager">
<title>&liloconfig;</title>

<para>Using this module, you can install lilo boot manager, add/remove/change boot password, change time till booting default OS, add/remove/change default OS, add/remove/change OS's, and more!</para>

<para>In order to organize all of these options, this module is
divided into three sections: <link
linkend="lilo-general"><guilabel>General Options</guilabel></link>,
<link linkend="lilo-OS"><guilabel>Operating Systems</guilabel></link>, and <link
linkend="lilo-expert"><guilabel>Expert</guilabel></link></para>

<para>You can switch between the sections using the tabs at the top of
the window.</para>

<note><para>If you are not currently logged in as a superuser, you
will need to click the <guibutton>Administrator Mode</guibutton>
Button. You will then be asked for a superuser password.  Entering a
correct password will allow you to modify the settings of this
module.</para></note>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="lilo-general">
<title>General Options</title>

<para>From this page you can add/remove/change boot password, time till booting default OS, and more!</para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Install boot record to drive/partition:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para> Select the drive or partition where you would like to install the Lilo boot loader.  Unless you intend to use other boot managers in addition to LILO, this should be the MBR (master boot record) of your boot drive. In this case, you should probably select /dev/hda if your drive is IDE, and /dev/sda if your boot drive is SCSI.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Boot the default kernel/OS after:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Lilo will wait the specified time before booting default kernel/OS.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use linear mode</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Linear mode tells the boot loader the location of the kernels in linear addressing rather than sector/head/cylinder. Linear mode is required by some SCSI drives, and shouldn't hurt unless you are planning to create a boot disk to be used with other computers. See lilo man file for more details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use compact mode</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The compact mode trys to merge read requests for adjacent sectors in to single read request. This reduces load time and keeps boot map smaller, but will not work on all systems.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Record boot command lines for defaults</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Automatic recording of boot command lines as defaults for following boots. This way, lilo "locks" on a choice until manually overridden.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Restrict parameters</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>A password is required only if any parameters changed (i.e. the user can boot linux, but not linux single or linux init=/bin/sh). This sets a default for all Linux kernels you want to boot. If you need a per-kernel setting, go to Operating Systems tab, and select details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Require password:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enter the password for bootup (if any) here. If restricted (above) is checked, the password is required for additional parameters only. <warning><para>The password is stored in clear text in /etc/lilo.conf. You'll want to make sure nobody untrusted can read this file. Also, you probably don't want to use your normal/root password here.</para></warning></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Default graphics mode on text console:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>You can select the default graphics mode here. If you intend to use a VGA graphics mode, you must compile the kernel with support for frame buffer devices. The ask setting brings up a prompt at boot time. This sets a default for all Linux kernels you want to boot. If you need a per-kernel setting, go to Operating Systems tab, and select details.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Enter LILO prompt automatically</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this box is checked, lilo goes to the lilo prompt whether or not a key is pressed. If it is turned off, lilo boots the default operating system unless shift is pushed (in that case, it goes to the lilo prompt).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="lilo-OS">
<title>Operating Systems</title>

<para>Some of the things that can be done here are: settings like <guilabel>General Options</guilabel> for specific kernels/OSes, set default OS to boot, probe for available kernels, you can also edit root file system, ramdisk settings, extra parameters, etc...</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Boot menu listbox</term>
<listitem><para>To the far left is a list of the kernels and operating systems you can currently boot. Choose the one you would like to edit.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Kernel:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enter the filename of the kernel you would like to boot. Pushing the <guibutton>Select...</guibutton> will bring up &kde; standard fileselector to help you find the kernel.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Label:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enter the label (name) of the kernel you want to boot here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Root filesystem:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enter the root filesystem for the kernel you would like to boot. Pushing the <guibutton>Select...</guibutton> will bring up &kde; standard fileselector to help you find the root filesystem.</para>
<note><title>Root filesystem</title><para>In this case, the root filesystem means the partition that will be mounted as / at boot time.</para></note>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Initial ramdisk:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you want to use an initial ramdisk (initrd) for this kernel, enter its filename here. Leave this field blank if you do not intend to use an initial ramdisk for this kernel.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Extra parameters:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enter an extra parameters you wish to pass kernel. Usually this can be left blank. This can the append option in lilo.conf.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Set Default</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Boot this kernel if the user doesn't make a different choice.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Details</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>This brings up a dialog box with further, less commonly used, options.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Probe</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Automaticly generate a (hopefully) reasonable lilo.conf for your system.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Check Configuration</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Run LILO in test mode to see if the configuration is ok.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Add Kernel...</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Add a new Linux kernel to the boot menu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Add Other OS...</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Add non-Linux OS to boot menu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Remove Entry</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>Remove entry from boot menu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="lilo-expert">
<title>Expert</title>
<para>In this page you can edit the /etc/lilo.conf file.</para>
<warning><para>Do <emphasis>not</emphasis> edit this file so unless you know what you are doing!</para></warning>
</sect1>

</article>
