<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>

<authorgroup>
<author>
&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2002-02-12</date>
<releaseinfo>3.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Battery</keyword>
<keyword>Power</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="lowbatwarn">


<title>The Low Battery Warning and Low Battery Critical Panels
</title>

<sect2 id="low-bat-warn-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>


<para>These two modules work together to control what happens when a
predetermined low battery condition occurs.  There are two of them, so you can
set a warning for when time is getting close, and something more desperate for
the last minute save or suspend.</para>

<!-- <note><para>The laptop modules require the correct installation of the apm modules.  For more information see the section entitled <link linkend="laptop">Laptop Information</link>.</para></note> -->

</sect2>

<sect2 id="low-bat-warn-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para><emphasis>Low trigger</emphasis></para>

<para>This field specifies at which point the battery low state is detected - it
is the number of minutes left (according to APM) in your batteries. When this
number is crossed the low state is triggered and one or more of the following
things will occur</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Run Command</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is a shell command that will be executed when the battery
low is detected.  By default, this is turned off.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Play Sound</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This specifies a sound to play when battery low is detected. Simply specify the path to the
file to have it played. By default, this is turned off.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>System Beep</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enabling this will cause the battery monitor to beep whenever
the battery level drops below the preset value. This is probably the least
intrusive, yet still active, method of alerting the user that the battery is
low. By default, this is on.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Notify</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Enabling this will cause Battery to pop up a window when the
battery becomes low.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Suspend</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If you have set up <filename>/usr/bin/apm</filename> to be run
setuid (see the instructions for the <guilabel>Power</guilabel> panel) then this check box will
appear - if checked it will cause your computer to be put into <guilabel>Suspend</guilabel>
mode.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Standby</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Like <guilabel>Suspend</guilabel> above, but it puts your computer into <guilabel>Standby</guilabel>
mode.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="low-bat-warn-author">
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>This section written by &Paul.Campbell; &Paul.Campbell.mail;</para>
<para>Converted to Docbook by &Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

</article>
