.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KXSCONFIG 1 "October 13, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kxsconfig \- KDE X screen saver configuration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kxsconfig
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
\fIscreensaver\fP
[ \fIsavername\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkxsconfig\fP is a screen saver configuration tool
for the K Desktop Environment (KDE).  It is used to configure generic
X screen savers, i.e., screen savers that have not been written explicitly
for KDE.
.PP
This program is part of the official KDE artwork module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kxsconfig-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkxsconfig \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fIscreensaver\fP
The filename of the screen saver to configure.
.TP
\fIsavername\fP
An optional human-readable screen saver name to use in messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fIexample$\fP kxsconfig /usr/lib/xscreensaver/bouboule Bouboule
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kxsrun (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This tool was written by Martin R. Jones <mjones@kde.org>.  It also
makes use of xscreensaver code written by Jamie Zawinski <jwz@jwz.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
