.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KXSRUN 1 "May 12, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kxsrun \- KDE X screen saver launcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kxsrun
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
\fIscreensaver\fP
[ \fB\-\-\fP \fIoptions\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkxsrun\fP is a screen saver launcher
for the K Desktop Environment (KDE).  It is used to launch generic
X screen savers, i.e., screen savers that have not been written explicitly
for KDE.
.PP
This program is part of the official KDE artwork module.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kxsrun-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkxsrun \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fIscreensaver\fP
The filename of the screen saver to launch.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fP \fIoptions\fP
Additional options to pass to the screen saver.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fIexample$\fP kxsrun /usr/lib/xscreensaver/bouboule
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kxsconfig (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This tool was written by Martin R. Jones <mjones@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
