.TH KCOLOREDIT "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kcoloredit \- KDE Color Palette Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kcoloredit
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIFile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kcoloredit
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B KColorEdit
is a palette files editor. It can be used for editing color palettes and for color choosing and naming.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
File
file to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B kcoloredit
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kcoloredit
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KColorEdit was written by
.nh
Artur Rataj <art@zeus.polsl.gliwice.pl>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
