.TH KDVI "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kdvi \- KDE DVI Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kviewshell
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] \fIpart file(s)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kdvi
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KDVI
is a plugin for the KViewshell program which allows KViewshell to
display DVI-files (.dvi) which are produced by the TeX typesetting
system. KDVI supports many extensions of the DVI standard, for
instance the inclusion of PostScript graphics or hyperlinks. More
details, examples and all the technical specifications can be found in
the file KDVI-features.dvi (or see KDVI-features.tex for the TeX
source of that file). 
.P
For up-to-date information, consult KDVI's home page. 
.P
TeX is a high-end typesetting system geared towards scientific, and in
particular mathematical typesetting. More information about TeX and
DVI can be found on the homepage of the TeX user group or the German
German DANTE e.V..  
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
part
The part to use
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-unique\fR
Check if the file is loaded in another kviewshell. If it is, bring up the other kviewshell. Otherwise, load the file.
.TP
\fB\-\-paper\fR
Sets paper size (not implemented at the moment, only for compatibility with lyx)
.TP
file(s)
Files to load
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B kdvi
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kdvi
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KViewShell was written by
.nh
Matthias Hoelzer-Kluepfel <mhk@caldera.de>,
David Sweet <dsweet@kde.org>,
Mark Donohoe,
Markku Hihnala,
David Faure,
Daniel Duley,
Espen Sand and
Stefan Kebekus <kebekus@kde.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
