.TH KFAX "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kfax \- KDE Fax Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kfax
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfile(s)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kfax
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
A program to display raw and tiffed fax images (g3, g3-2d, g4).
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-fine\fR
Fine resolution
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-normal\fR
Normal resolution
.TP
\fB\-\-height\fR
Height (number of fax lines)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-width\fR
Width (dots per fax line)
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-landscape\fR
Turn image 90 degrees (landscape mode)
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-upsidedown\fR
Turn image upside down
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-invert\fR
Invert black and white.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mem\fR <bytes>
Limit memory use to 'bytes'. [8M]
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Fax data is packed lsb first
.TP
\fB\-2\fR
Raw files are g3-2d
.TP
\fB\-4\fR
Raw files are g4
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
file(s)
Fax file(s) to show
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B kfax
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kfax
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KFax was written by
.nh
Bernd Johannes Wuebben <wuebben@kde.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
