.TH KGHOSTVIEW "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kghostview \- KDE PS/PDF Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kghostview
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIURL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KGhostView
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B  KGhostView
displays and prints PostScript (.ps, .eps) and Portable
Document Format (.pdf) files. It a port to KDE of Tim Theisen's
Ghostview program which uses Alladin Ghostscript to view documents
prepared in Adobe's PostScript page description
language. PostScript is the major page description language for
printing on UNIX(rg systems and this application can be used to preview
material intended for printing or for reading documents online.  
.P
You can use KGhostView with all recent versions of Ghostscript. Newer
versions offer much improved performance which you can take advantage
of with KGhostView.  
.P
If a document does not conform to the Adobe document structuring
convention the functionality of the viewer is limited. For example, if
there is no table of contents, skipping around the document and
marking pages is not possible. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
URL
Location to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KGhostView
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kghostview
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KGhostView was written by
.nh
Wilco Greven <greven@kde.org>,
David Sweet <dsweet@kde.org>,
Mark Donohoe <donohoe@kde.org>,
David Faure <faure@kde.org>,
Daniel Duley <mosfet@kde.org> and
Espen Sand <espen@kde.org>
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
