.TH KICONEDIT "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kiconedit \- KDE Icon Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kiconedit
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIfile(s)\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KIconEdit
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KIconEdit
is designed to help create icons for KDE using the standard
icon palette.  
.PP
KDE Icon Editor
.SH AUTHOR
KIconEdit was written by
.nh
Thomas Tanghus <tanghus@kde.org>,
John Califf <jcaliff@compuzone.net>,
Laurent Montel <lmontel@mandrakesoft.com> and
Aaron J. Seigo <aseigo@olympusproject.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
file(s)
Icon file(s) to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KIconEdit
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kiconedit
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KIconEdit was written by
.nh
Thomas Tanghus <tanghus@kde.org>,
John Califf <jcaliff@compuzone.net>,
Laurent Montel <lmontel@mandrakesoft.com>
and Aaron J. Seigo <aseigo@olympusproject.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
