.TH KPAINT "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kolourpaint \- KDE Paint Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kolourpaint
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KPaint
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KPaint
is a simple bitmap drawing program that can also be used to modify
existing image files and convert between image file formats. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
file
File or URL to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KPaint
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kolourpaint
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KPaint was written by
.nh
Richard J. Moore <rich@kde.org>,
Robert Williams <rwilliams@jrcmaui.com>,
Mario Weilguni <mweilguni@kde.org>,
Christian Oppel <uzs84g@uni-bonn.de>,
John Califf <jcaliff@compuzone.net> and
Laurent Montel <lmontel@mandrakesoft.com>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
