.TH KOOKA "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kooka \- KDE Scan & OCR Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kooka
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B Kooka
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B Kooka
is a KDE application which provides access to scanner
hardware using the SANE library.
.P
Kooka helps you scan, save your
image in the correct image format and perform \fBO\fRptical
\fBC\fRharacter \fBR\fRecognition on it,using \fIgocr\fR, Joerg
Schulenburg's and friends' Open Source ocr program.
.P
Kooka is a KDE application that enables easy scanning using SANE
libraries. Therefore, SANE the package must be installed to use
Kooka. Clear and concise use was the focus of its development. 
.P
Character recognition is also provided by the built-in text
recognition program gocr. Install gocr to use this
functionality. After character recognition is complete, the recognized
material can be opened in the text editor Kate with just one click,
where you can edit the contents. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
the SANE compatible device specification (e.g. umax:/dev/sg0) []
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
gallery mode - do not connect to scanner []
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B Kooka
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kooka
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
Kooka was written by
.nh
Klaas Freitag <freitag@suse.de> and
Mat Colton <mat@colton.de>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
