.TH KPOVMODELER "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kpovmodeler \- KDE Povray Modeler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kpovmodeler
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B Povray Modeler
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KPovModeler
is a 3D modeling application to generate POV-Ray scenes.
.P
While it is not necessary to fully understand the POV-Ray application
in order to make good use of KPovModeler, it is highly recommended
that you read and try to understand the POV-Ray documentation. 
.P
To find out more about POV-Ray go to www.povray.org.
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
file
File to open
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-opengl\fR
Disables OpenGL rendering
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B Povray Modeler
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kpovmodeler
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KPovModeler was written by
.nh
Andreas Zehender <zehender@kde.org>,
Luis Passos Carvalho <lpassos@mail.telepac.pt>,
Philippe Van Hecke <lephiloux@tiscalinet.be> and
.hy
Leonardo Skorianez <skorianez@bol.com.br>.
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
