.TH KRULER "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kruler \- KDE Screen Ruler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kruler
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KRuler
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B KRuler
is a very simple application, with only one aim in life. To
measure distances on your screen. 
.P
To start KRuler, choose Graphics->KDE Screen Ruler from your K menu.
.P
left mouse button clicking on the KRuler will turn the cursor into a
hand icon, and enable you to drag KRuler around the screen. 
.P
When you move the mouse over KRuler, your cursor will turn into an
elongated arrow, with a circle at one end. As you move the cursor,
KRuler will display how far from the point marked 0 the circle on the
end of the cursor currently is. KRuler will also display the HTML
color code of the color currently under the circle. This is very
useful for picking out colors from an image. If you move the mouse far
enough that the arrow cursor is no longer touching KRuler, the cursor
will revert to normal, allowing you to carry on working with your
other applications. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KRuler
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kruler
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KDE Screen Ruler was written by
.nh
Till Krech <till@snafu.de>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
