.TH KSNAPSHOT "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
ksnapshot \- KDE Screen Capture Program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ksnapshot
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KSnapshot
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KSnapshot
is a simple applet for taking screenshots. It is capable of
capturing images of either the whole desktop or just a single
window. The images can then be saved in a variety of formats. 
.PP
KDE Screenshot utility
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KSnapshot
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/ksnapshot
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KSnapshot was written by
.nh
Richard J. Moore <rich@kde.org>,
Matthias Ettrich <ettrich@kde.org> and
Aaron J. Seigo <aseigo@olympusproject.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
