.TH KUICKSHOW "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kuickshow \- KDE Image Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kuickshow
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B Kuickshow
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KuickShow
is a comfortable image browser/viewer. It displays a
filebrowser where you can select images which are then shown.
.P
The following image formats are supported:
.P
.RS 
\(bu jpg
.br
\(bu gif
.br
\(bu tiff
.br
\(bu png
.br
\(bu bmp
.br
\(bu psd
.br
\(bu xmp
.br
\(bu xbm
.br
\(bu eim
.RE
.P
Images can be displayed either in their own window, as large as the
image, or fullscreen. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-lastdir\fR
Start in the last visited directory, not the current working directory
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
files
Optional image filenames/urls to show
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B Kuickshow
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kuickshow
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KuickShow was written by
.nh
Carsten Pfeiffer <pfeiffer@kde.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
