.TH KVIEWSHELL "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kviewshell \- Generic framework for viewer applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kviewshell
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] \fIpart file(s)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kviewshell
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
Generic framework for viewer applications.
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
part
The part to use
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-unique\fR
Check if the file is loaded in another kviewshell. If it is, bring up the other kviewshell. Otherwise, load the file.
.TP
\fB\-\-paper\fR
Sets paper size (not implemented at the moment, only for compatibility with lyx)
.TP
file(s)
Files to load
.SH AUTHOR
KViewShell was written by
.nh
Matthias Hoelzer-Kluepfel <mhk@caldera.de>,
David Sweet <dsweet@kde.org>,
Mark Donohoe,
Markku Hihnala,
David Faure,
Daniel Duley,
Espen Sand,
and Stefan Kebekus <kebekus@kde.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
