.TH KVIEW "1" "September 2002" KDE "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kview \- KDE Image Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kview
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIURL\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B KView
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.P
.B KView
is an image viewer for the KDE desktop. You can view graphics of
many different formats such as PostScript, TIFF etc. By saving your
files in a different format than the original you can easily convert
images to other graphics formats. In addition, KView provides some
nice little features for doing simple image processing, like
stretching/shrinking, rotation and filtering. You can tile your images
directly onto the desktop as a background picture, or arrange them in
a little slideshow. 
.P
This program is part of the official KDE graphics module.
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Show help about options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-qt\fR
Show Qt specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-kde\fR
Show KDE specific options
.TP
\fB\-\-help\-all\fR
Show all options
.TP
\fB\-\-author\fR
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR
Show license information
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
End of options
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
URL
Image to open
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B KView
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kview
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.SH AUTHOR
KView was written by
.nh
Matthias Kretz <kretz@kde.org>,
Sirtaj Singh Kang <taj@kde.org>
and Simon Hausmann <hausmann@kde.org>.
.hy
.br
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
