.TH KAPPFINDER 1 "August, 24 2003"
.SH NAME
kappfinder \- searches for program to add to the Kde menu
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kappfinder
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kappfinder
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBkappfinder\fP is a program that searches your system for applications that can be inserted in the KDE menu, but that are not yet there. User can then select individually each of them and choose whether to add them.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show QT specific help (common for all QT apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific help (common for all KDE apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show the complete help.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show program author(s).
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show program license.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-\-dir directory
Use this option to set where the .desktop files will be installed (default is $(HOME)/.kde/share/applnk

.SH SEE ALSO
For more details, you should have a look at the KDE Help center, available
from the K menu.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Clement Stenac <zorglub@via.ecp.fr>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux project (but may be used by others).
.PP
kappfinder was written by the KDE project
