.TH KATE 1 "May 2006"
.SH NAME
kate \- KDE Advanced Text Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kate
.RI [ options ] [file(s)]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kate
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBkate\fP is a powerful text editor for KDE. It allows multiple documents (MDI interface), syntax coloration for many languages, ...

It is able to expand or collapse parts of code (C functions, ...), can handle complete projects, and includes a terminal emulator.

Kate is primarily intended for developers but can be used by anyone. It will for example be very useful to edit configuration files for example.

It can handle plugins to expand its capabilities (more languages support, vim/Emacs compatibility, ...)

.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show QT specific help (common for all QT apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific help (common for all KDE apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show the complete help.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show program author(s).
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show program license.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-start <name>
Start Kate with a given session
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-use
Use a already running kate instance (if possible)
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pid <pid>
Only try to reuse kate instance with this pid
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-encoding <name>
Set encoding for the file to open
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-line <line>
Navigate to this line
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-column <column>
Navigate to this column
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-stdin
Read the contents of stdin
.TP
.B file(s)
is the file or the files to open

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kwrite (1)
.PP
For more details, you should have a look at the KDE Help center, available
from the K menu.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Clement Stenac <zorglub@via.ecp.fr>, for Debian GNU/Linux, but may be used by others.
.PP
kate was written by the KDE project
