.TH KDEPASSWD 1

.SH NAME
kdepasswd \- graphical frontend to change the user's password

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kdepasswd [ \fIQt-options\fR ] [ \fIKDE-options\fR ] \fIoptions\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
Changes a UNIX password.

.SH OPTIONS
.B Generic options:
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-help
Show help about options
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show Qt specific options
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific options
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show all options
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-author
Show author information
.TP
.HP
.B \-v\fR, \fB \-\-version
Show version information
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-license
Show license information
.TP
.B Qt options:
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-display <displayname>
Use the X-server display 'displayname'.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-session <sessionId>
Restore the application for the given 'sessionId'.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-cmap
Causes the application to install a private 
color map on an 8-bit display.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-ncols <count>
Limits the number of colors allocated in the color
cube on an 8-bit display, if the application is
using the QApplication::ManyColor color
specification.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-nograb
Tells Qt to never grab the mouse or the keyboard.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-dograb
Running under a debugger can cause an implicit
-nograb, use -dograb to override.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-sync
Switches to synchronous mode for debugging.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-fn, \-\-font <fontname>
Defines the application font.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-bg, \-\-background <color> 
sets the default background color and an
application palette (light and dark shades are
calculated).
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-fg, \-\-foreground <color> 
Sets the default foreground color.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-btn, \-\-button <color>
Sets the default button color.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-name <name>
Sets the application name.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-title <title>
Sets the application title (caption).
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-visual TrueColor
Forces the application to use a TrueColor visual on
an 8-bit display.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-inputstyle <inputstyle>
Sets XIM (X Input Method) input style. Possible
values are onthespot, overthespot, offthespot and
root.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-im <XIM server>
Set XIM server.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-noxim
Disable XIM.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-reverse
Mirrors the whole layout of widgets.
.TP
.B KDE options:
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-caption <caption>
Use 'caption' as name in the titlebar.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-icon <icon>
Use 'icon' as the application icon.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-miniicon <icon>
Use 'icon' as the icon in the titlebar.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-config <filename>
Use alternative configuration file.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-dcopserver <server>
Use the DCOP Server specified by 'server'.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-nocrashhandler
Disable crash handler, to get core dumps.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-waitforwm
Waits for a WM_NET compatible windowmanager.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-style <style>
Sets the application GUI style.
.TP
.HP
.B \-\-geometry <geometry>
Sets the client geometry of the main widget.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR passwd (1).

.SH AUTHOR
Andre Ramos <andre@alunos.di.fc.ul.pt>
