.TH KDIALOG "1" "December 2002" "KDE" "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kdialog \- Show KDE dialog boxes from shell scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kdialog
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIarg\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kdialog
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B kdialog
allows to display dialog boxes from shell scripts.
The syntax is very much inspired from the 
.B dialog
command
(which shows text mode dialogs).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-yesno " text"
Question message box with yes/no buttons
.TP
.BI \-\-yesnocancel " text"
Question message box with yes/no/cancel buttons
.TP
.BI \-\-warningyesno " text"
Warning message box with yes/no buttons
.TP
.BI \-\-warningcontinuecancel " text"
Warning message box with continue/cancel buttons
.TP
.BI \-\-warningyesnocancel " text"
Warning message box with yes/no/cancel buttons
.TP
.BI \-\-sorry " text"
\&'Sorry' message box
.TP
.BI \-\-error " text"
\&'Error' message box
.TP
.BI \-\-msgbox " text"
Message Box dialog
.TP
.BI \-\-inputbox " text init"
Input Box dialog
.TP
.BI \-\-password " text"
Password dialog
.TP
.RI \fB\-\-textbox\fP \ file " [" width "] [" height ]
Text Box dialog
.TP
.RI \fB\-\-menu\fP \ text " [" "tag item" "] [" "tag item" "] ..."
Menu dialog
.TP
.RI \fB\-\-checklist\fP \ text " [" "tag item status" "] ..."
Check List dialog
.TP
.RI \fB\-\-radiolist\fP " text" " [" "tag item status" "] ..."
Radio List dialog
.TP
.BI \-\-title " text"
Dialog title
.TP
.B \-\-separate\-output
Return list items on separate lines (for checklist option)
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP
arg
Arguments - depending on main option
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help about options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show Qt specific options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show all options
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show author information
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show license information
.TP
.B \-\-
End of options
.SS "Qt options:"
.TP
.BI \-\-display \ displayname
Use the X-server display \fIdisplayname\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-session \ sessionId
Restore the application for the given \fIsessionId\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-cmap
Causes the application to install a private color
map on an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-ncols \ count
Limits the number of colors allocated in the color
cube on an 8-bit display, if the application is
using the QApplication::ManyColor color
specification.
.TP
.B \-\-nograb
tells Qt to never grab the mouse or the keyboard.
.TP
.B \-\-dograb
running under a debugger can cause an implicit
.B \-nograb, use \fB\-dograb\fR to override.
.TP
.B \-\-sync
switches to synchronous mode for debugging.
.TP
.BI "\-\-fn\fR, \fP\-\-font" \ fontname
defines the application font.
.TP
.BI "-\-bg\fR, \fB\-\-background"  \ color
sets the default background color and an
application palette (light and dark shades are
calculated).
.TP
.BI "\-\-fg\fR, \fB\-\-foreground"  \ color
sets the default foreground color.
.TP
.BI \-\-btn\fR, \fB\-\-button \ color
sets the default button color.
.TP
.BI \-\-name \ name
sets the application name.
.TP
.BI \-\-title \ title
sets the application title (caption).
.TP
.B \-\-visual TrueColor
forces the application to use a TrueColor visual on
an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-inputstyle \ inputstyle
sets XIM (X Input Method) input style. Possible
values are 
.BR onthespot ", " overthespot ", " offthespot and root .
.TP
.BI \-\-im " XIM-server"
set XIM server.
.TP
.B \-\-noxim
disable XIM.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
mirrors the whole layout of widgets.
.SS "KDE options:"
.TP
.BI \-\-caption \ caption
Use \fIcaption\fP as name in the titlebar.
.TP
.BI \-\-icon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the application icon.
.TP
.BI \-\-miniicon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the icon in the titlebar.
.TP
.BI \-\-config \ filename
Use alternative configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-\-dcopserver \ server
Use the DCOP Server specified by \fIserver\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-nocrashhandler
Disable crash handler, to get core dumps.
.TP
.B \-\-waitforwm
Waits for a WM_NET compatible windowmanager.
.TP
.BI \-\-style \ style
sets the application GUI style.
.TP
.BI \-\-geometry \ geometry
sets the client geometry of the main widget.
.SH AUTHOR
KDialog was written by
.nh
.ad l
David Faure <faure@kde.org>,
Nick Thompson,
Nick Thompson,
Matthias Hoelzer <hoelzer@kde.org> and
David Gumbel <david.guembel@gmx.net>.
.br
.hy
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the authors directly.
.br
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
.ad l
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
