.TH KFIND 1 "August, 25 2003"
.SH NAME
kfind \- KDE find tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kfind
.RI [ options ]  [searchpath]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kfind
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBkfind\fP is a find tool for KDE. It allows fine tuning of the search options (name, path, type, plain text search, meta search, modification date, size, user, group, ...)

It also permits to save the results of the search in a file, which is a plain-text list of file URIs. (file:/path_to_file)

.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show QT specific help (common for all QT apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific help (common for all KDE apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show the complete help.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show program author(s).
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show program license.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.

.TP
.B searchpath
is the path in which the search must be done

.SH SEE ALSO
For more details, you should have a look at the KDE Help center, available
from the K menu.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Clement Stenac <zorglub@via.ecp.fr>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux project (but may be used by others).
.PP
kfind was written by the KDE project
