.TH KPERSONALIZER 1
.SH NAME
kpersonalizer - KDE basic settings wizard

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B kpersonalizer [OPTION...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The KDE Personalizer (KPersonalizer) is a wizard to configure KDE, and should automatically be run the first time a user runs KDE, to allow the user to configure basic KDE settings.
.PP
KPersonalizer allows the user to set locales, desktop behavior, enable accessibility features, and so forth. The options can be changed later by the KDE Control Center application.

.SH OPTIONS

KPersonalizer accepts the following options:
.PP
.B Help options
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help about options.
.TP
.B \-\-help-qt
Show Qt specific options.
.TP
.B \-\-help-kde 
Show KDE specific options.
.TP
.B \-\-help-all 
Show all options.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show author information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.B \-\-license 
Show license information. 

.PP
.B Options
.TP
.B \-r 
KPersonalizer is restarted by itself. 
.TP
.B \-\-before-session 
KPersonalizer is started before the KDE session.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B kpersonalizer
Run kpersonalizer to set (or reset) KDE preferences.
.TP
.B kpersonalizer --before-session
Run kpersonalizer before the first KDE session. 

.SH AUTHORS

Kpersonalizer was written by Ralf Nolden <nolden@kde.org>, Carsten Wolff <wolff@kde.org>, qwertz <kraftw@gmx.de>, and Bernhard Rosenkraenzer <bero@redhat.com>.
.PP
This  manual page was written by Joe Brockmeier <jzb@zonker.net>, for the Debian GNU/Linux project, but may be used by others.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
.BR khelpcenter (1)
