.TH KWRITE 1 "August, 25 2003"
.SH NAME
kwrite \- KDE text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kwrite
.RI [ options ]  [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B kwrite
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBkwrite\fP is a text editor for KDE, that is a light version of \fIkate\fP.
It allows syntax coloration for many langages.

It is able to expand or collapse parts of code (C functions, ...).

.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B  \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show QT specific help (common for all QT apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific help (common for all KDE apps).
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show the complete help.
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show program author(s).
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show program license.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version of program.

.B file
is the file to open

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kate (1)
.PP
For more details, you should have a look at the KDE Help center, available
from the K menu.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Clement Stenac <zorglub@via.ecp.fr>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux project (but may be used by others).
.PP
kwrite was written by the KDE project
