.TH CUPSDOPRINT 1 "Jun 2006" "K Desktop Environment" "printing tool"
.SH NAME
cupsdoprint
\- KDE command line tool to print files via CUPS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR cupsdoprint \ [ \-H \ host[:port]]\ [ \-P \ dest]\ [ \-J \ name]\ [ \-o \ opt=value[,...]]
.RS 12
.RB [ \-U \ login[:password]]\ files...
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcupsdoprint\fP is a command line tool to print files using the CUPS printing system.
.sp 1
\fBcupsdoprint\fP does not support printing from stdin.
.sp 1
You can use \fBlpoptions \-l \-p Printername\fP to discover the options a certain printer supports.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-?
show help options
.TP
.BR \-H \ host:port
cups host to print to
.TP
.BR \-J \ name
print job name
.br
default: "KDE Print System"
.TP
.BR \-o \ opt=value
options to use
.TP
.BR \-P \ dest
printer to use
.TP
.BR \-U \ login:password
login and password to use
.SS
.SH EXAMPLE
cupsdoprint \-P HPLaserJet4L \-H localhost:631 \-U john
.RS 12
\-o Copies=10,PageSize=A4 /tmp/file.ps
.RE
.sp 1
Prints 10 copies in format A4 of the file /tmp/file.ps as user john via localhost:631 on the printer HPLaserJet4L.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B www.linuxprinting.org
Information about printing under UNIX
.sp 1
.BR lp (1),\  lpr (1),\  lpoptions (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Michael Goffioul <kdeprint@swing.be>

.br
.fi
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs, do not mail the author directly.
.PP
This manual page was written by Holger Hartmann <Holger_Hartmann@gmx.de> for the \fBDebian\fP Project (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
.PP
On \fBDebian\fP systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL.
