.TH IMAGETOPS 1 "Jun 2006" "K Desktop Environment" "Generic Image to PS Filter"
.SH NAME
imagetops
\- generic image to ps filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR imagetops \ [ \-gray ]\ [ arguments\ for\ pnmtops ]
.RI [  filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBimagetops\fP is a generic image to ps filter. It can be used as print filter in KDE.
.sp 1
\fBimagetops\fP works in two steps:
.IP "    1."
the given file is converted to PNM format by analyzing the file format and calling the appropriate conversion program.
.IP "    2."
the file in PNM format is converted to PS format by calling \fBpnmtops\fP.
.PP
The supported mime types are: jpeg, png, x\-png, bmp, x\-bmp, gif and tiff.
.sp 1
\fBimagetops\fP supports reading the parameters via stdin. A temporary file in \fI/tmp\fP is created then.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Options:
.TP
.B  \-gray
convert image to grayscale
.SS Arguments:
.TP
.B arguments for pnmtops
arguments passed to pnmtops
.TP
.I filename
image file to convert
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bmptoppm (1),\  giftopnm (1),\  jpegtopnm (1),\  pngtopnm (1),\  ppmtopgm (1),\  
.BR pnmtops (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
The KDE project
.br

.br
.fi
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs.
.PP
This manual page was written by Holger Hartmann <Holger_Hartmann@gmx.de> for the \fBDebian\fP Project (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
.PP
On \fBDebian\fP systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL.
