.TH MAKE_DRIVER_DB_LPR 1 "Jun 2006" "K Desktop Environment" ""
.SH NAME
make_driver_db_lpr
\- create a printer database from aps filter database and ifhp filter database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make_driver_db_lpr
.RI [ db_directory ]\ [ output_filename ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmake_driver_db_lpr\fP creates a printer database from aps filter database and ifhp filter database. These databases contain descriptions of printers.
.sp 1
\fBmake_driver_db_lpr\fP prints all printer descriptions found in the filter databases to stdout.
The first line gives the number of all found printers. Every printer description block consists of the items FILE, MANUFACTURER, MODELNAME, MODEL and DESCRIPTION.
The block is followed by the current block number.
.sp 1
If an output file is given \fBmake_driver_db_lpr\fP suppresses all numbers.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Arguments:
.TP
.I db_directory
directory with filter files
.TP
.I output_filename
write printer database into this file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make_driver_db_cups (1),\  ifhp (8)
.TP
.B www.linuxprinting.org
Information about printing under UNIX
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
The KDE project

.br
.fi
Please use http://bugs.kde.org to report bugs.
.PP
This manual page was written by Holger Hartmann <Holger_Hartmann@gmx.de> for the \fBDebian\fP Project (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
.PP
On \fBDebian\fP systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common\-licenses/GPL.
