.TH KGPG "1" "December 2002" "KDE" "KDE Application"
.SH NAME
kgpg \- a KDE frontend for GNU Privacy Guard (GnuPG)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kgpg
[\fIQt-options\fR] [\fIKDE-options\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B Kgpg
KDE Application.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B Kgpg
is a simple graphical interface for gpg (http://gnupg.org).
Basically, It allows you to encrypt and decrypt files or messages, and to manage your keys. 
.PP
Kgpg can be used in different ways: 
.IP "1 -" 4
Open Kgpg. You will see an editor. Just type or paste your text in the editor. You can then easily encrypt/decrypt the text. 
.IP "2 -" 4
On your Desktop or from a Konqueror window, right click on a file and you will see an encrypt file entry in the menu. just select it to encrypt the file. In the same way, simply left click on an encrypted file to decrypt it. 
.IP "3 -" 4
If you enable Kgpg's Klipper action, as soon as you copy an encrypted text to the clipboard, a popup menu will ask you if you want to decrypt it. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
encrypt file
.TP
.B \-s
show encrypted file
.TP
.B \-S
sign file
.TP
.B \-V
verify signature
.SS "Arguments:"
.TP 12
file
file to open
.SS "Generic options:"
.TP 12
.B \-\-help
Show help about options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-qt
Show Qt specific options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-kde
Show KDE specific options
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Show all options
.TP
.B \-\-author
Show author information
.TP
.B \-v\fR, \fB\-\-version
Show version information
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show license information
.TP
.B \-\-
End of options
.SS "Qt options"
.TP 12
.BI \-\-display \ displayname
Use the X-server display \fIdisplayname\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-session \ sessionId
Restore the application for the given \fIsessionId\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-cmap
Causes the application to install a private color
map on an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-ncols \ count
Limits the number of colors allocated in the color
cube on an 8-bit display, if the application is
using the QApplication::ManyColor color
specification.
.TP
.B \-\-nograb
tells Qt to never grab the mouse or the keyboard.
.TP
.B \-\-dograb
running under a debugger can cause an implicit
.B \-nograb, use \fB\-dograb\fR to override.
.TP
.B \-\-sync
switches to synchronous mode for debugging.
.TP
.BI "\-\-fn\fR, \fP\-\-font" \ fontname
defines the application font.
.TP
.BI "-\-bg\fR, \fB\-\-background"  \ color
sets the default background color and an
application palette (light and dark shades are
calculated).
.TP
.BI "\-\-fg\fR, \fB\-\-foreground"  \ color
sets the default foreground color.
.TP
.BI \-\-btn\fR, \fB\-\-button \ color
sets the default button color.
.TP
.BI \-\-name \ name
sets the application name.
.TP
.BI \-\-title \ title
sets the application title (caption).
.TP
.B \-\-visual TrueColor
forces the application to use a TrueColor visual on
an 8-bit display.
.TP
.BI \-\-inputstyle \ inputstyle
sets XIM (X Input Method) input style. Possible
values are 
.BR onthespot ", " overthespot ", " offthespot and root .
.TP
.BI \-\-im " XIM-server"
set XIM server.
.TP
.B \-\-noxim
disable XIM.
.TP
.B \-\-reverse
mirrors the whole layout of widgets.
.SS "KDE options"
.TP 12
.BI \-\-caption \ caption
Use \fIcaption\fP as name in the titlebar.
.TP
.BI \-\-icon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the application icon.
.TP
.BI \-\-miniicon \ icon
Use \fIicon\fP as the icon in the titlebar.
.TP
.BI \-\-config \ filename
Use alternative configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-\-dcopserver \ server
Use the DCOP Server specified by \fIserver\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-nocrashhandler
Disable crash handler, to get core dumps.
.TP
.B \-\-waitforwm
Waits for a WM_NET compatible windowmanager.
.TP
.BI \-\-style \ style
sets the application GUI style.
.TP
.BI \-\-geometry \ geometry
sets the client geometry of the main widget.
.SH AUTHOR
kgpg was written by
.nh
.ad l
y0k0 <bj@altern.org>,
.br
.hy
This manual page was prepared by
.nh
.ad l
Karolina Lindqvist <pgd\-karolinali@algonet.se>
.hy
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation for
.B Kgpg
is maintained as a docbook manual.  If the
.B khelpcenter
program is properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B khelpcenter help:/kgpg
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
.P
Alternatively the manual can be browsed in
.B konqueror
giving it the URL help:/kgpg

